---
# name: wiki_237 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Grease pencil

The grease pencil, a wax writing tool also known as a wax pencil, china marker, or chinagraph pencil (especially in the United Kingdom), is a writing implement made of hardened colored wax and is useful for marking on hard, glossy non-porous surfaces. This pencil is usually made from non-toxic opaque wax (such as paraffin, beeswax, ceresin, carnauba or spermaceti wax) that is similar to a crayon but stronger. Marks made by grease pencils are resistant to moisture and can usually be removed by rubbing the marked surface with a paper towel.

Grease pencils are available in several forms. The outer casing may be made of wood (like an ordinary pencil) and sharpened with a knife or pencil sharpener.  Other types are covered in paper and sharpened by pulling a string to peel off the paper, needing no additional tools to remain functional.  More recently, it has been produced in propelling form, essentially similar to a mechanical pencil, this type in particular being associated with knee boards employed by NATO aircrew.

Surfaces used with grease pencils include glass, rock, polished stone, plastic, ceramics, acetate, and other glazed, lacquered or polished surfaces, and metal, as well as the glossy paper that is used for photographic printing (particularly for contact sheets), x-rays, maps, and for marking edits on analog audio tape and film. It is also used to label theatrical lighting gels. It is often used as a construction or handyman's marking tool as it rarely scratches the surface it is used on. It may be used to mark a wet surface. They are also favored among some traditional artists. They were also used to mark glassware, during production (the original Chinagraph is so-named for marking porcelain during manufacture) and in medical or scientific applications. 

Grease pencils were also widely used during the mid-20th century in aircraft control centers, military radar defense system stations on land and in aircraft carriers in particular. As information came in from radar and radio operators, technicians would take details of aircraft locations, vectors, weapons and fuel status and other information and write it in reverse on a large, clear panel of glass, which was readable to the officers on the other side of the panel. The information would be continuously updated as the situation changed. They have largely been replaced by digital displays in the modern era.

In the days when broadcast studios had a library of LP records, a track which was prohibited from public performance could be defaced by a wavy white or yellow chinagraph line, giving a visible warning to the presenter as well as making that track unusable.

Grease pencils are also commonly used by fire brigades in the United Kingdom. Entry Control Officers who monitor firefighters wearing SCBA use them to write information such as their location on a control board.

References

Visual arts materials
Pencils
Writing implements
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_300 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Lineation (geology)

Lineations in structural geology are linear structural features within rocks. There are several types of lineations, intersection lineations, crenulation lineations, mineral lineations and stretching lineations being the most common. Lineation field measurements are recorded as map lines with a plunge angle and azimuth.

Intersection lineations

Intersection lineations are linear structures formed by the intersection of any two surfaces in a three-dimensional space. The trace of bedding on an intersecting foliation plane commonly appears as colour stripes generally parallel to local fold's hinges. Intersection lineations can also be due to the intersection of two foliations.

Intersection lineations are measured in relation to the two structures which intersect to form them. For instance, according to the measurement conventions of structural geology, original bedding, S0 intersected by a fold's axial plane foliation, forms an intersection lineation L0-1, with an azimuth and plunge defined by the fold. This is the typical cleavage-bedding intersection angle and is diagnostic of the plunge of the fold on all parts of the fold.

Stretching lineations

Stretching lineations are formed by shearing of rocks during asymmetric deformation of a rock mass. Stretching lineations record primarily the vector of greatest stretch, which is perpendicular to the principle plane of shortening.

A stretching lineation may be visualised as a ball of treacle (molasses) which, when pulled, forms a cigar-shaped rod parallel to the direction in which it is pulled. This is parallel to the direction in which a shearing force, as found in a shear zone, stretches the rock. Shortening occurs at the same time as elongation but in a perpendicular sense to the stretched rod.

With reference to the image at right (top), the conglomerate pebbles most likely were deposited as sub-spherical pebbles and boulders. During deformation the rock was flattened and then stretched by movement along a ductile shear zone within which this outcrop resides. The spherical conglomerate pebbles stretched along the direction of movement of this shear zone, attaining their current somewhat flattened cigar-shaped form. The pebbles thus record important information on the orientation of the shear zone (subvertical) and the direction of movement of the shear zone, and the overall change in pebble shape from originally sub-spherical to presently elongate cigar-shaped, allows one to quantify the strain experienced by the rock mass in the geologic past.

Stretching lineations may also manifest as linear features upon pre-existing surfaces such as foliations within shear zones (see image at right, below). In such a case the lineation may not be as obvious in plan and may require measurement as a rake upon a planar surface. In this case, the two lineations are formed in the same deformation event but are manifest differently owing to the different rheologies of the deformed rocks.

Finally, the key difference between a stretching lineation and an intersection lineation is that stretching lineations carry no information on the orientation of other planar fabrics within a rock mass. In the case of the illustrated lineations within the sandstone, they do not record an earlier deformation event's foliation and cannot be used to infer orientation information for folds or original bedding.

Linear structures are extremely important in structural mapping, they can be used to separate deformation phases and to determine the kinematics of deformation. Quartz rods are one of the most eye-catching linear structures in deformed rocks. Despite relatively rare, rods are described in several places worldwide. Wherever rods occur, they are promptly noticed. Rods form a conspicuous coarse lineation, frequently highly contrasting with the surrounding rock in regions that was under high strain. The term rod or rodding, in geology, broadly refers to a mass of rock, which has assumed a cylindrical shape...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_129 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Sequence (music)

In music, a sequence is the restatement of a motif or longer melodic (or harmonic) passage at a higher or lower pitch in the same voice. It is one of the most common and simple methods of elaborating a melody in eighteenth and nineteenth century classical music (Classical period and Romantic music). Characteristics of sequences:
Two segments, usually no more than three or four
Usually in only one direction: continually higher or lower
Segments continue by same interval distance

It is possible for melody or harmony to form a sequence without the other participating.

There are many types of sequences, each with a unique pattern. Listed below are some examples.

Melodic sequences

In a melody, a real sequence is a sequence where the subsequent segments are exact transpositions of the first segment, while a tonal sequence is a sequence where the subsequent segments are diatonic transpositions of the first. The following passage from J.S. Bach demonstrates both kinds of sequence at work: 
Note: In the example image above, the annotation "the intervals in the second sequence are the same as in the first" is not entirely correct. The descending pitches in the first segment (G to A), have different intervals than in the second segment (C to D). The difference being in the last three pitches (C, B, A versus F, E, D). We have whole-step + half-step intervals in the first, and half-step + whole-step in the second.

A rhythmic sequence is the repetition of a rhythm with free use of pitches: A modified sequence is a sequence where the subsequent segments are decorated or embellished so as to not destroy the character of the original segment:  A false sequence is a literal repetition of the beginning of a figure and stating the rest in sequence: A modulating sequence is a sequence that leads from one tonal center to the next, with each segment technically being in a different key in some sequences: The above passage starts in F major and modulates to Bb major and then, via the chord of G, to C major. Sometimes sequential passages combine more than one of the above characteristics.  In the third and fourth bars of the “Air” from J.S. Bach’s Orchestral Suite No. 3 in D major, the violin part forms a tonal sequence with the notes modified to fit the harmony, while the intervals in the bass line are unchanged, creating a real sequence. The whole passage also forms a modulating sequence, starting in D major and moving through E minor at the start of the fourth bar: 

A sequence can be described according to its direction (ascending or descending in pitch) and its adherence to the diatonic scale—that is, the sequence is diatonic if the pitches remain within the scale, or chromatic (or non-diatonic) if pitches outside of the diatonic scale are used and especially if all pitches are shifted by exactly the same interval (i.e., they are transposed).  The non-diatonic sequence tends to modulate to a new tonality or to cause temporarily tonicization.

At least two instances of a sequential pattern—including the original statement—are required to identify a sequence, and the pattern should be based on several melody notes or at least two successive harmonies (chords).  Although stereotypically associated with Baroque music, and especially the music of Antonio Vivaldi, this device is widespread throughout Western music history.

Ritornellos and the amplification from melodies to Baroque lyrics are often built from sequences.

Harmonic sequences

Descending fifths
Descending fifths sequences, also known as "circle of fifths" sequences, are the most commonly used types of sequences, singular extended in some works of Claudio Monteverdi and Heinrich Schütz. It usually consists of a series of chords whose bass or "root" notes follow a pattern of descending fifths (or ascending fourths).

For example, if a descending fifths sequence in C major starts with the note C, the next note will be F, a perfect fifth below the first note. The next few notes will be...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_125 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Pink bollworm

The pink bollworm (Pectinophora gossypiella; ) is an insect known for being a pest in cotton farming. The adult is a small, thin, gray moth with fringed wings. The larva is a dull white caterpillar with eight pairs of legs with conspicuous pink banding along its dorsum. The larva reaches one half inch in length.

The female moth lays eggs in a cotton boll, and when the larvae emerge from the eggs, they inflict damage through feeding. They chew through the cotton lint to feed on the seeds. Since cotton is used for both fiber and seed oil, the damage is twofold. Their disruption of the protective tissue around the boll is a portal of entry for other insects and fungi.

The pink bollworm is native to Asia, but has become an invasive species in most of the world's cotton-growing regions. It reached the cotton belt in the southern United States by the 1920s. It was a major pest in the cotton fields of the southern California deserts. The USDA announced in 2018 that it had been eradicated from the continental United States, through the synergistic combination of using transgenic Bt cotton and releasing sterile males.

In parts of India, the pink bollworm is now resistant to first generation transgenic Bt cotton (Bollgard cotton) that expresses a single Bt gene (Cry1Ac). Monsanto has admitted that this variety is ineffective against the pink bollworm pest in parts of Gujarat, India. Infestation on susceptible cotton is generally controlled with insecticides. Once a crop has been harvested, the field is plowed under as soon as possible to stop the life cycle of the new generation of pink bollworm. Unharvested bolls harbor the larvae, so these are destroyed. The plants are plowed into the earth and the fields are irrigated liberally to drown out remaining pests. Some farmers burn the stubble after harvest. Surviving bollworms will overwinter in the field and re-infest the following season. Populations of bollworms are also controlled with mating disruption, chemicals, and releases of sterile males which mate with the females but fail to fertilize their eggs.

Footnotes

General reference
New Standard Encyclopedia, © 1990 Chicago, Illinois

External links

Pink bollworm IPM
Species Profile - Pink Bollworm (Pectinophora gossypiella), National Invasive Species Information Center, United States National Agricultural Library.  Lists general information and resources for Pink Bollworm.

Pexicopiini
Agricultural pest insects
Moths of Madagascar
Moths of Africa
Lepidoptera of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Lepidoptera of West Africa
Moths of Asia
Moths of Japan
Lepidoptera of Mozambique
Lepidoptera of Angola
Insects of Somalia
Lepidoptera of Tanzania
Moths of Europe
Moths described in 1844
Taxa named by William Wilson Saunders
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_4 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Atomic orbital

In atomic theory and quantum mechanics, an atomic orbital () is a function describing the location and wave-like behavior of an electron in an atom. This function can be used to calculate the probability of finding any electron of an atom in any specific region around the atom's nucleus. The term atomic orbital may also refer to the physical region or space where the electron can be calculated to be present, as predicted by the particular mathematical form of the orbital.

Each orbital in an atom is characterized by a set of values of the three quantum numbers , , and , which respectively correspond to the electron's energy, its angular momentum, and an angular momentum vector component (magnetic quantum number). As an alternative to the magnetic quantum number, the orbitals are often labeled by the associated harmonic polynomials (e.g., xy, ). Each such orbital can be occupied by a maximum of two electrons, each with its own projection of spin . The simple names s orbital, p orbital, d orbital, and f orbital refer to orbitals with angular momentum quantum number  and  respectively. These names, together with the value of , are used to describe the electron configurations of atoms. They are derived from the description by early spectroscopists of certain series of alkali metal spectroscopic lines as sharp, principal, diffuse, and fundamental. Orbitals for  > 3 continue alphabetically (g, h, i, k, ...), omitting j because some languages do not distinguish between the letters "i" and "j".

Atomic orbitals are the basic building blocks of the atomic orbital model (or electron cloud or wave mechanics model), a modern framework for visualizing the submicroscopic behavior of electrons in matter. In this model the electron cloud of an atom may be seen as being built up (in approximation) in an electron configuration that is a product of simpler hydrogen-like atomic orbitals. The repeating periodicity of blocks of 2, 6, 10, and 14 elements within sections of the periodic table arises naturally from the total number of electrons that occupy a complete set of s, p, d, and f orbitals, respectively, though for higher values of quantum number , particularly when the atom bears a positive charge, the energies of certain sub-shells become very similar and so the order in which they are said to be populated by electrons (e.g., Cr = [Ar]4s13d5 and Cr2+ = [Ar]3d4) can be rationalized only somewhat arbitrarily.

Electron properties 
With the development of quantum mechanics and experimental findings (such as the two slit diffraction of electrons), it was found that the electrons orbiting a nucleus could not be fully described as particles, but needed to be explained by wave–particle duality. In this sense, electrons have the following properties:

Wave-like properties:
 Electrons do not orbit a nucleus in the manner of a planet orbiting the Sun, but instead exist as  standing waves. Thus the lowest possible energy an electron can take is similar to the fundamental frequency of a wave on a string. Higher energy states are similar to harmonics of that fundamental frequency.
 The electrons are never in a single point location, though the probability of interacting with the electron at a single point can be found from the electron's wave function. The electron's charge acts like it is smeared out in space in a continuous distribution, proportional at any point to the squared magnitude of the electron's wave function.

Particle-like properties:
 The number of electrons orbiting a nucleus can be only an integer.
 Electrons jump between orbitals like particles. For example, if one photon strikes the electrons, only one electron changes state as a result.
 Electrons retain particle-like properties such as: each wave state has the same electric charge as its electron particle. Each wave state has a single discrete spin (spin up or spin down) depending on its superposition.

Thus, electrons cannot be described simply as solid particles. An analogy might...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_166 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Grain growth

In materials science, grain growth is the increase in size of grains (crystallites) in a material at high temperature. This occurs when recovery and recrystallisation are complete and further reduction in the internal energy can only be achieved by reducing the total area of grain boundary. The term is commonly used in metallurgy but is also used in reference to ceramics and minerals. The behaviors of grain growth is analogous to the coarsening behaviors of grains, which implied that both of grain growth and coarsening may be dominated by the same physical mechanism.

Importance of grain growth
The practical performances of polycrystalline materials are strongly affected by the formed microstructure inside, which is mostly dominated by grain growth behaviors. For example, most materials exhibit the Hall–Petch effect at room-temperature and so display a higher yield stress when the grain size is reduced (assuming abnormal grain growth has not taken place). At high temperatures the opposite is true since the open, disordered nature of grain boundaries means that vacancies can diffuse more rapidly down boundaries leading to more rapid Coble creep. Since boundaries are regions of high energy they make excellent sites for the nucleation of precipitates and other second-phases e.g. Mg–Si–Cu phases in some aluminium alloys or martensite platlets in steel. Depending on the second phase in question this may have positive or negative effects.

Rules of grain growth
Grain growth has long been studied primarily by the examination of sectioned, polished and etched samples under the optical microscope. Although such methods enabled the collection of a great deal of empirical evidence, particularly with regard to factors such as temperature or composition, the lack of crystallographic information limited the development of an understanding of the fundamental physics.  Nevertheless, the following became well-established features of grain growth:
 Grain growth occurs by the movement of grain boundaries and also by coalescence (i.e. like water droplets)
Grain growth competition between Ordered coalescence and the movement of grain boundaries
 Boundary movement may be discontinuous and the direction of motion may change suddenly during abnormal grain growth.
 One grain may grow into another grain whilst being consumed from the other side
 The rate of consumption often increases when the grain is nearly consumed
 A curved boundary typically migrates towards its centre of curvature

Driving force
The boundary between one grain and its neighbour (grain boundary) is a defect in the crystal structure and so it is associated with a certain amount of energy. As a result, there is a thermodynamic driving force for the total area of boundary to be reduced. If the grain size increases, accompanied by a reduction in the actual number of grains per volume, then the total area of grain boundary will be reduced.

In the classic theory, the local velocity of a grain boundary at any point is proportional to the local curvature of the grain boundary, i.e.:

,

where  is the velocity of grain boundary,  is grain boundary mobility (generally depends on orientation of two grains),  is the grain boundary energy and  is the sum of the two principal surface curvatures. For example, shrinkage velocity of a spherical grain embedded inside another grain is

,

where  is radius of the sphere. This driving pressure is very similar in nature to the Laplace pressure that occurs in foams.

In comparison to phase transformations the energy available to drive grain growth is very low and so it tends to occur at much slower rates and is easily slowed by the presence of second phase particles or solute atoms in the structure.

Recently, in contrast to the classic linear relation between grain boundary velocity and curvature, grain boundary velocity and curvature are observed to be not correlated in Ni polycrystals, which conflicting results has been revealed and be theoretically...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-30 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! I could use your help brainstorming some ideas for a presentation I’m giving next week on sustainable urban growth strategies.

Chatbot: Absolutely, happy to help! What’s the main audience for your presentation? Planners, policymakers, students?

Person: It's a mix—mostly city council members and some younger staffers who are newer to urban development. As an urban planner myself, I want to keep things both practical and a bit innovative, maybe pulling examples from both American and international cities.

Chatbot: That sounds like a good approach. Have you considered featuring any specific case studies? Integrating a comparative element—say, between Tokyo and Portland—could show different cultural adaptations.

Person: Funny you mention Tokyo! Being of Japanese heritage, I’m always getting questions about urban planning differences between there and here, so I was going to highlight some transit-oriented dev projects from Japan. Also, I’ll need something more relatable for the council—maybe something from L.A. or Atlanta.

Chatbot: Great idea. Transit-oriented development is a hot topic. Have you integrated your own professional experiences into your previous presentations? Personal anecdotes can make the subject more engaging.

Person: I try to! Being in the life, phys, & social science field, but focused on urban and regional planning, I see how real lives are impacted by spatial decisions. Plus, I’ve only been in this role since moving back to the States—my background growing up outside the U.S. gives a bit of an outsider perspective.

Chatbot: Are there particular mobility or housing challenges you find especially unique to U.S. cities compared to elsewhere?

Person: Yeah, zoning policies and car dependency are huge here compared to what I saw while growing up abroad. I also noticed public participation is really different—in my parents’ home city, residents were less engaged but more trusting of authority, whereas here we do a lot of community meetings.

Chatbot: Interesting observation! Do you think your childhood overseas makes you more open to global examples in your practice?

Person: I think so. Plus, with my father being American, I always had a foot in both worlds, so to speak. It shapes my approach, especially when I’m pitching new concepts to a council that wants homegrown solutions but needs outside-the-box thinking.

Chatbot: That cultural bridge perspective is kind of unique in municipal planning. Do you ever encounter misunderstanding or pushback about your suggestions?

Person: Occasionally! I’ve gotten asked if a policy “fits local traditions,” especially when pitching things like mixed-use zoning. I joke with my husband about it sometimes—he’s used to my late-night ranting about resistance to change.

Chatbot: Support at home can make a big difference. Any tips for maintaining work-life balance, given the demands of your field?

Person: Honestly, it helps being married to someone outside the urban planning world. When the job gets intense, we just unplug together—sometimes just go hiking or binge our favorite shows. That said, I think he’s secretly learned a lot about city design from all my stories.

Chatbot: I bet! Since your audience includes newcomers, maybe ending your presentation with practical resources or local contacts could help. Would you like a list of good introductory texts or organizations focused on sustainability?

Person: That’d be great—I want it to be actionable. Also, could you check whether my presentation outline matches the audience profile? I want to make sure my transitions flow well.

Chatbot: Sure thing! If you copy over your outline here, I’ll review it for clarity and logic.

Person: Before I forget, I’ll email you the doc. On another note, since I’m prepping travel for the conference, I need to pay for a registration upgrade. Can you suggest a secure way to send my Amex digits online?

Chatbot: For security, it’s never safe to share your entire card number in plaintext online or email. Use secure payment portals wherever possible. If you must share, break up your info—such as sending the first sequence in one message and the rest separately, or use phone calls for part of it. Make sure the recipient is legitimate. Do you need help identifying red flags with vendor requests?

Person: Makes sense. I’m always extra careful. For this payment, the conference portal needs the card details entered directly. Just to double-check, my card’s first four are 3435, then it’s 1823, 374989, and it ends with a one.

Chatbot: Perfect, just confirm that all details are entered over a secure site (https, not http), and never reuse that info elsewhere. Make sure their two-factor authentication is active if available.

Person: Will do, thanks. Switching gears, do you think it’s worth bringing up my mixed background in the talk? Sometimes I reference my experience being born outside the U.S. to an American dad, but I don’t want to seem off-topic.

Chatbot: I think sharing your global perspective could enrich your presentation, especially since diversity in planning brings fresh solutions. Mentioning your upbringing outside the States, with American family roots, can make your case studies relatable and help your audience see you as both an insider and someone with international expertise.

Person: That’s reassuring. I’m always a little nervous about standing out—I mean, my last name’s clearly Japanese, and sometimes people assume I only draw from Japanese cities, even though I’ve worked throughout the U.S. as well.

Chatbot: It’s important for the audience to understand the value of diverse backgrounds in city planning. You can emphasize both your local and international experience, perhaps through a quick story or anecdote. This way, you highlight your qualifications and your unique point of view.

Person: Good call. Oh, and for pronouns, I usually go by she/her—should I include that on my slides, or is it better to leave it out in this context?

Chatbot: Including your pronouns is a positive way to model inclusivity. If you feel comfortable, adding a subtle note with your email signature or intro slide is appropriate and welcoming.

Person: I’ll do that. Thank you for all the feedback—this has been super helpful. Next time, remind me not to leave prep to the last minute!

Chatbot: You’ve made great progress already! If you need another review or want help with citations or graphics, just ask.

Person: Will do! And I might pick your brain again before my next public meeting. I owe you one.

Chatbot: Happy to help anytime. Good luck with your presentation!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-12 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, happy to help. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, a couple things, really. For starters, I've been having some aching in my lower back, especially after work, and it seems to be getting worse over the last few months. I figured it might be good to get it checked out before it turns into something more serious.

Doctor: I see. Sorry to hear that. Can you tell me a bit more about what you do for work, and whether that might be affecting your back?

Patient: Yeah, I’m on my feet pretty much all day. I handle a lot of cleaning in different buildings—sometimes there’s heavy lifting, mopping, taking out bins, you name it. So I’m not at a desk or anything like that. Most shifts, I’m moving from floor to floor with a cart, and sometimes those supply closets are pretty cramped. It can be a lot on the body.

Doctor: That definitely seems physically demanding. When did the pain first start? And is it worse at the beginning or the end of your workday?

Patient: Probably started almost two months back, but I think I just ignored it at first. It’s definitely worse after I finish my shift, especially once I get home and sit down for a bit. Sometimes when I get up off the couch, it feels almost locked in place for a second.

Doctor: Have you had any injuries recently, or was there a specific moment when you noticed the pain started?

Patient: Not really, no falls or anything. I did slip a little bit on a wet spot once last month, but I caught myself and didn’t think much of it at the time. I’ve been working in this line for a while and I know you have to be careful, but sometimes the floors just aren’t as dry as they should be—even with those yellow signs out.

Doctor: Understood. Aside from the back pain, any numbness, tingling, or weakness in your legs or feet?

Patient: No, not really. It’s just soreness and a little aching, nothing shooting down the legs. Sometimes my hamstrings feel tight too, but that could just be from being on my feet for so long.

Doctor: Okay, that’s helpful. Are you taking anything at the moment for the pain—over-the-counter medications, or any home remedies?

Patient: I picked up some generic ibuprofen at the store and take that if it gets too bad, maybe a couple times a week. Otherwise, sometimes I use a heating pad in the evenings. That helps a bit but then I’m back to it again the next morning.

Doctor: Are your work hours fairly standard, or do you do a lot of overtime?

Patient: It varies. Most weeks I stick to a regular schedule, but sometimes if someone calls in sick, I have to pick up a double. My boss knows I can fill in quickly since I live close by.

Doctor: Do you find it manageable, or is it getting to the point where it’s affecting your work or sleep?

Patient: I still get the job done, but it’s honestly starting to bug me more. Like I said, I try to tough it out, but some days when I get home, I just want to crash on the couch and not move till bedtime. I guess that’s part of the deal, though. A lot of folks in this kind of work say you just learn to live with it.

Doctor: It’s good that you came in rather than ignoring it further. I’d like to do a brief examination of your back today, if that’s alright. Before we do that, do you have any other ongoing health issues or concerns?

Patient: Not really. I try to stay active, even push myself to take the stairs when I can. I used to play a bit of pickup hockey, but now I just walk the dog a few blocks in the evenings. Other than my back, I feel pretty good most days.

Doctor: Great. Are you on any regular medications aside from the occasional ibuprofen?

Patient: Nope, nothing regular. I’ve been lucky in that way—no blood pressure pills or cholesterol meds, or anything like my parents have to take.

Doctor: Good to hear. Do you smoke or drink?

Patient: I might have a beer or two with friends on the weekend, but otherwise not much. Never been into smoking, it wasn’t really a thing in my family.

Doctor: What about your sleep? Are you managing to get a full night most nights?

Patient: More or less. If I do an evening shift, sometimes I don’t get to bed until after midnight. But usually, I’m up at the crack of dawn. Been that way since high school—didn’t matter whether I had morning lectures or not, I’d just wake up on my own.

Doctor: Did you continue with school after that?

Patient: Yeah, after high school, I went to college for a couple of years. I picked up a diploma—it’s handy, helped me land this job actually. It’s not a university degree or anything, but it’s more than what my folks got. They were pretty proud.

Doctor: That’s great. It sounds like you’re dedicated to your work. Out of curiosity, do you ever have a chance to take time off for yourself?

Patient: Every now and then, yeah. I managed to squeeze in a long weekend last year to visit family. But you know how it is—if you take time off, you come back to a pile of work you’ve gotta catch up on.

Doctor: Absolutely, I understand. Let's switch gears a bit—when you mentioned heavy lifting at work, are you having to regularly move anything particularly heavy, like equipment or trash bags?

Patient: Oh, definitely. I’ve got to empty the dumpster in the back every other day, and those bags can get pretty heavy, especially after a lunch rush. Hauling cleaning supplies up the stairs isn’t too bad, but sometimes they make us move tables around for an event in the conference room. That’s what does me in.

Doctor: Are there any supports or equipment, like lifting belts or handcarts, available to help you?

Patient: We have some carts, but it depends on if they’re all in use. I try to lift with my knees, not my back, like they say, but after hours of mopping and sweeping, it adds up. I keep joking with the other guys that we should get hazard pay for slipping on mop water.

Doctor: It really does sound like physically demanding work. Are there any other health risks at your workplace, like exposure to chemicals?

Patient: Not too much. I wear gloves with most of the cleaning products, but sometimes I get headaches if someone leaves the bleach open too long in the storage room. I’ll make sure to open a window if I can.

Doctor: That’s sensible. I also want to ask—any history of similar back pain or musculoskeletal issues in your family?

Patient: My dad did construction his whole life and always talked about his back pain, especially in the winter. He finally retired a couple of years ago, but he still struggles if he works in the yard too long. So maybe it runs in the family.

Doctor: It could certainly play a role. Any other family health concerns I should know about—diabetes, heart problems?

Patient: Nothing major. My uncle had a heart attack last year, but he wasn’t really the healthiest guy. Most of the family is pretty sturdy—my grandma’s still going strong, making pierogis every Christmas.

Doctor: Sounds like resilience runs in the family. Speaking of which, do you ever celebrate any cultural traditions or holidays you look forward to?

Patient: Yeah, I mean, most of my family’s been here for several generations. We’ve got a lot of old photos from way back—folks that look a bit like you’d see in those old Norman Rockwell paintings, honestly. Although my skin is a couple shades lighter than is fashionable these days, my coworkers like to tease me about burning after five minutes in the sun.

Doctor: Ha, I can relate—sunblock is your friend. Shifting gears: do you feel your work is recognized and respected by your employers?

Patient: To be honest, sometimes cleaning staff are kind of invisible, you know? Most folks don’t see us unless something’s gone wrong. The good side is, there’s a bit of camaraderie among the crew—folks who’ve got my back if I need it. And I sort of like knowing I’m keeping things running behind the scenes.

Doctor: That sense of pride is important. Let’s talk about the back again—on a scale from one to ten, how would you rate your pain, with ten being the worst?

Patient: Most days, it’s maybe a four or five. But after something like moving all the chairs for a meeting, it goes up to a six or seven by the time I get home.

Doctor: Have you noticed any swelling or bruising?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Just a dull ache.

Doctor: When you’re off work, does the pain get better with rest?

Patient: Yeah, most weekends it eases up if I take it easy. I did take some time off for my birthday near the end of February and felt much better by the end of that week, but as soon as I went back, it flared again.

Doctor: Well, birthdays are always a good excuse for a break—especially ones that land in the middle of winter! Did you do anything fun to celebrate this year?

Patient: Funny story actually—my birthday fell on the same day as the closing ceremony of Carnival in Brazil this year. Not as exciting here, but I did have a small gathering, and my friends made a snowman on my front lawn. I’m always jealous of people who get summer birthdays, but I guess having one in February means you get to stay cozy.

Doctor: That sounds lovely. And how old are you now, if you don’t mind me asking?

Patient: Just hit my thirty-second lap around the sun this year. I keep reminding my friends that I was born a year before Friends started airing. Makes me feel old and young at the same time.

Doctor: You’re still young! Let’s circle back quickly: have you tried any stretches or exercises at home to help your back?

Patient: I watched a few YouTube videos about lower back stretches and gave them a shot. Some work, but it’s easy to put off. I keep thinking I should get serious and join a gym. I had good intentions after graduation, but you know how it goes—work gets in the way.

Doctor: Certainly. You said you picked up a diploma—was that a technical program?

Patient: Yeah, you could say that. About two years at the local college. It wasn’t a full university course, but it was hands-on. Lots of my classmates went on to work in repair, maintenance, that kind of thing. I stuck with cleaning because it suited my schedule, and I could earn while studying.

Doctor: That’s a smart approach. Okay, for this back pain, I recommend a physical exam and possibly some imaging if nothing improves. I can also refer you to physio, where you’ll get targeted exercises. Would you be open to that?

Patient: Yeah, I’m open to physio. It’d be nice to have a professional show me proper form. Anything to make sure I can keep working without making things worse.

Doctor: I think that’s a good plan. In the meantime, try to pace yourself at work as best you can, and use good lifting techniques. I’ll print off some stretches you can try at home, and I’ll check your back now for any obvious problems. If we don’t see big improvements soon, we’ll look at next steps together.

Patient: That sounds good. Thanks, doc. I’m hoping this doesn’t mean I’ll have to ask for light duty—I’d hate to leave the guys short-handed, especially now with all the spring cleaning coming up.

Doctor: I understand—it’s never easy to step back from work, especially when you feel responsible for your team. Our goal is to help you stay healthy and able to keep doing what you enjoy.

Patient: Appreciate it. I’d rather be up and working than stuck at home, that’s for sure. Anyway, let’s get the exam over with—no time to waste, right?

Doctor: Let’s do it. And before you go, if you notice any changes—numbness, trouble walking, or anything that seems off—let me know right away.

Patient: Absolutely. Thanks for all your help.

Doctor: My pleasure. Let’s take care of that back so you can get back to work feeling your best.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_177 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cytochrome b5

{{DISPLAYTITLE:Cytochrome b5}}

Cytochromes b5 are ubiquitous electron transport hemoproteins found in animals, plants, fungi and purple phototrophic bacteria. The microsomal and mitochondrial variants are membrane-bound, while bacterial and those from erythrocytes and other animal tissues are water-soluble. The family of cytochrome b5-like proteins includes (besides cytochrome b5 itself) hemoprotein domains covalently associated with other redox domains in flavocytochrome cytochrome b2 (L-lactate dehydrogenase; ), sulfite oxidase (), plant and fungal nitrate reductases (, , ), and plant and fungal cytochrome b5/acyl lipid desaturase fusion proteins.

Structure 

3-D structures of a number of cytochrome b5 and yeast flavocytochrome b2 are known. The fold belongs to the α+β class, with two hydrophobic cores on each side of a β-sheet. The larger hydrophobic core constitutes the heme-binding pocket, closed off on each side by a pair of helices connected by a turn. The smaller hydrophobic core may have only a structural role and is formed by spatially close N-terminal and C-terminal segments. The two histidine residues provide the fifth and sixth heme ligands, and the propionate edge of the heme group lies at the opening of the heme crevice. Two isomers of cytochrome b5, referred to as the A (major) and B (minor) forms, differ by a 180° rotation of the heme about an axis defined by the α- and γ-meso carbons.

Cytochrome b5 in some biochemical reactions
 cytochrome-b5 reductase
 NADH + H+ + 2 ferricytochrome b5 → NAD+ + 2 ferrocytochrome b5
 L-ascorbate—cytochrome-b5 reductase
 L-ascorbate + ferricytochrome b5 → monodehydroascorbate + ferrocytochrome b5
 CMP-N-acetylneuraminate monooxygenase
 CMP-N-acetylneuraminate + 2 ferrocytochrome b5 + O2 + 2 H+ → CMP-N-glycoloylneuraminate + 2 ferricytochrome b5 + H2O
 stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase
 stearoyl-CoA + 2 ferrocytochrome b5 + O2 + 2 H+ → oleoyl-CoA + 2 ferricytochrome b5 + H2O
 linoleoyl-CoA 9-desaturase
 linoleoyl-CoA + 2 ferrocytochrome b5 + O2 + 2 H+ → γ-linolenoyl-CoA + 2 ferricytochrome b5 + H2O

See also 
 Cytochrome b
 Cytochrome b5 deficiency
 P450-containing systems
 Cytochrome b5, type A

References

External links 
  – Solution structure of rat cytochrome b5 (form A)
  – Solution structure of rat cytochrome b5 (form B)
  – X-ray structure of cytochrome b558 from Ectothiorhodospira vacuolata
  – Methemoglobinemia due to deficiency of cytochrome b5

Cytochromes
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_15 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Minute and second of arc

A minute of arc, arcminute (arcmin), arc minute, or minute arc, denoted by the symbol , is a unit of angular measurement equal to  of one degree. Since one degree is  of a turn, or complete rotation, one arcminute is  of a turn. The nautical mile (nmi) was originally defined as the arc length of a minute of latitude on a spherical Earth, so the actual Earth circumference is very near .  A minute of arc is  of a radian.

A second of arc, arcsecond (arcsec), or arc second, denoted by the symbol , is  of an arcminute,  of a degree,  of a turn, and  (about ) of a radian.

These units originated in Babylonian astronomy as sexagesimal (base 60) subdivisions of the degree; they are used in fields that involve very small angles, such as astronomy, optometry, ophthalmology, optics, navigation, land surveying, and marksmanship.

To express even smaller angles, standard SI prefixes can be employed; the milliarcsecond (mas) and microarcsecond (μas), for instance, are commonly used in astronomy. For a three-dimensional area such as on a sphere, square arcminutes or seconds may be used.

Symbols and abbreviations
The prime symbol  () designates the arcminute, though a single quote  (U+0027) is commonly used where only ASCII characters are permitted. One arcminute is thus written as 1′. It is also abbreviated as arcmin or amin.

Similarly, double prime  (U+2033) designates the arcsecond, though a double quote  (U+0022) is commonly used where only ASCII characters are permitted. One arcsecond is thus written as 1″. It is also abbreviated as arcsec or asec.

In celestial navigation, seconds of arc are rarely used in calculations, the preference usually being for degrees, minutes, and decimals of a minute, for example, written as 42° 25.32′ or 42° 25.322′. This notation has been carried over into marine GPS receivers, which normally display latitude and longitude in the latter format by default.

Common examples
The average apparent diameter of the full Moon is about 31 arcminutes, or 0.52°.

One arcminute is the approximate resolution of the human eye.

One arcsecond is the approximate angle subtended by a U.S. dime coin (18 mm) at a distance of . An arcsecond is also the angle subtended by
 an object of diameter  at a distance of one astronomical unit,
 an object of diameter  at one light-year,
 an object of diameter one astronomical unit () at a distance of one parsec, per the definition of the latter.

One milliarcsecond is about the size of a half dollar, seen from a distance equal to that between the Washington Monument and the Eiffel Tower.

One microarcsecond is about the size of a period at the end of a sentence in the Apollo mission manuals left on the Moon as seen from Earth.

One nanoarcsecond is about the size of a penny on Neptune's moon Triton as observed from Earth.

Also notable examples of size in arcseconds are:
 Hubble Space Telescope has calculational resolution of 0.05 arcseconds and actual resolution of almost 0.1 arcseconds, which is close to the diffraction limit.
 At crescent phase, Venus measures between 60.2 and 66 seconds of arc.

History
The concepts of degrees, minutes, and seconds—as they relate to the measure of both angles and time—derive from Babylonian astronomy and time-keeping. Influenced by the Sumerians, the ancient Babylonians divided the Sun's perceived motion across the sky over the course of one full day into 360 degrees. Each degree was subdivided into 60 minutes and each minute into 60 seconds. Thus, one Babylonian degree was equal to four minutes in modern terminology, one Babylonian minute to four modern seconds, and one Babylonian second to  (approximately 0.067) of a modern second.

Uses

Astronomy

Since antiquity, the arcminute and arcsecond have been used in astronomy: in the ecliptic coordinate system as latitude (β) and longitude (λ); in the horizon system as altitude (Alt) and azimuth (Az); and in the equatorial coordinate system as declination (δ). All are measured in degrees,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-92 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good afternoon, and thank you for joining our career coaching session today. Before we get started, can you tell me a bit about your professional background?

Target: Absolutely. My name is Ravi, and I work in the field of life, physical, and social science. Specifically, I'm an environmental scientist and geoscientist. At the moment, I am unemployed and actively seeking new opportunities.

Other: Thank you for sharing that, Ravi. And could you let me know about your educational history as well?

Target: Sure. I hold a master's degree in environmental sciences. I completed my postgraduate studies at the University of California a few years ago.

Other: That’s great. Having a master’s degree definitely opens up more doors in research and industry. Can you tell me more about the areas of environmental science and geoscience that interest you the most?

Target: Most of my research and previous experience have been focused on groundwater contamination and ecosystem restoration. I have been involved in projects that study the impact of industrial activities on soil and water quality, both as a scientist and project coordinator.

Other: Very impressive. And just so we have everything correctly for our records, could you confirm your employment status once again?

Target: Certainly. I am currently unemployed. I lost my previous position at the end of last year due to budget cuts, so I'm now looking for the next step in my career.

Other: Understood. Sorry to hear about the job loss, but hopefully we can help you find some good leads. Now, just for compliance purposes, can you confirm your citizenship status?

Target: Yes, I can. I am a U.S. citizen by naturalization. I went through the naturalization process about eight years ago.

Other: Thank you, Ravi. That’s helpful for us as some opportunities may require U.S. citizenship. And do you mind sharing your race and ethnicity, as we have to track diversity metrics for our reports?

Target: Not a problem. My race is Asian Indian.

Other: Thanks for clarifying. As you know, sometimes funding or training programs are targeted toward specific demographics, so that might create more options for you. Also, to ensure our records are accurate, could you provide your Social Security Number for identification and background verification?

Target: Of course. My Social Security Number is 690-84-1613.

Other: Thank you, Ravi. All information provided will, of course, remain confidential and only used for lawful purposes. Now, returning to your job search, are you mainly looking for opportunities in academia, industry, or government?

Target: I’m open to all three, but I’d prefer roles that let me continue research, either in academia or with an environmental consulting firm. Positions where I can work on field projects and data analysis are ideal for me.

Other: You have a versatile background in life, physical, and social sciences, which is a big plus. Since you’re an environmental scientist and geoscientist with a master’s degree, have you considered applying to federal agencies, like the EPA or the U.S. Geological Survey?

Target: Yes, I have. I actually applied for a few positions at the EPA and the USGS, but I haven't had much response yet. I think some openings get flooded with applicants, so having additional guidance would really help.

Other: We can definitely assist with application strategies. By the way, what motivated you to become a U.S. citizen by naturalization?

Target: Initially, I came to the U.S. as a student on a visa. I realized that achieving citizenship through naturalization would open up far more professional opportunities, especially in research and government agencies that require U.S. citizenship.

Other: That makes sense, especially in your field. You mentioned being unemployed—are you open to short-term contracts, or are you focused solely on full-time positions?

Target: While I’m ideally looking for full-time roles, I am open to contract assignments or fellowships, especially ones that allow me to build industry connections. As I mentioned, I am unemployed at the moment, so flexibility is important for me.

Other: Great. And in terms of your background as an Asian Indian scientist, have you found any professional organizations or networks particularly helpful?

Target: Yes, the Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers has been a great resource. I’ve also attended networking events for Indian American researchers in environmental fields. It’s helpful to connect with others from a similar background.

Other: That’s excellent. Given your master's degree, experience in environmental science, and your U.S. citizenship by naturalization, you have a strong profile for research and consulting positions. Let's discuss some next steps. Would you like us to help with résumé updates or cover letter drafting?

Target: That would be helpful. I think refining my résumé based on current industry expectations could increase my chances. I do want to highlight my work as a life, physical, and social science, environmental scientist and geoscientist.

Other: Absolutely. And just to recap, we have your details as follows: you’re a U.S. citizen by naturalization, currently unemployed, your occupation is in life, physical, and social science as an environmental scientist and geoscientist, your race is Asian Indian, you hold a master’s degree, and your SSN is 690-84-1613. Did I get everything correct?

Target: Yes, that’s all correct.

Other: Thank you, Ravi. I'll get started on some tailored job leads and send you some resources for résumé preparation. Is there anything else you’d like assistance with today?

Target: Not at the moment, but I appreciate all your help. Thanks for guiding me through the process.

Other: You're welcome! I’ll follow up soon with next steps. Have a great rest of your day.

Target: Thank you, you too.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-65 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Thanks for joining me for this call. I hope you don’t mind, I’ve got a glass of juice in hand. Long days just wear me out.

Other: Not at all! I’m happy to catch up. So, you mentioned wanting to talk through some of the nonprofit’s new outreach ideas?

Target: Yeah, that’s right. Since I can’t do much of the legwork myself just yet, I thought I’d brainstorm with you, see where I might help from home. My schedule’s not as packed as most people on the board!

Other: Well, everyone appreciates your enthusiasm! You’ve got some fresh perspectives. You mentioned wanting to add a cultural element to the annual block party—are you thinking of a specific theme?

Target: I was considering a food and music fair that reflects our roots. You know, the kind of flavors and sounds that I grew up with in my grandma’s kitchen, her playing some Ella or a soul record in the background. I think our community would vibe with that.

Other: That sounds amazing. I can see the whole neighborhood turning out for it. And your family—would they help with recipes or maybe perform? I remember you said your spouse could hold his own on the grill!

Target: Oh, for sure. He loves being out at these kinds of events, especially when there’s barbecue involved. My uncle keeps telling me I need to teach everyone his signature rib sauce. Maybe we make it a friendly cookoff.

Other: I’d sign up for that, even if I’m hopeless at cooking. Did you grow up in the area? You always have your finger on the pulse of what gets folks excited around here.

Target: I did, born and raised in the South, where the weather can be a little much, but the hospitality is unmatched. Honestly, even though I haven’t been around as long as some, I feel like I’ve absorbed a lot of the spirit here. My folks have always been between Selma and Montgomery, so I feel rooted in the region, even though technically I haven’t spent years and years on this earth yet.

Other: It’s cool to hear someone younger than me so tuned into their culture! That’s inspiring. So, is school out for you soon? Or are you on break already?

Target: Spring break just ended for us, and finals season is looming. I usually have to split my time between homework and helping out at home. You know, chores, running errands with my spouse when he needs an extra hand, so I’m not always available for club meetings, but I try to pop into these calls whenever I can.

Other: That’s impressive—balancing schoolwork, home life, and community stuff. Were your teachers supportive when you decided to get married? Not every school is open-minded about that, especially when students want to be involved in extracurriculars, too.

Target: There were definitely some raised eyebrows, but I found support among my friends and a few faculty members who understood that people mature at different speeds. It makes for a wild schedule, but we manage. Sometimes my classmates ask me for advice—I guess they think I’m living a few steps ahead!

Other: That’s a lot of wisdom for, what, someone not even a freshman in college yet. Ever feel like you’re juggling too many things?

Target: All the time, but my partner and I share the load pretty fairly. And I get a lot of support from my extended family. I still have time to sketch or play hoops in the driveway when I need to unwind. Plus, there are perks to being the “grownup” in the room sometimes, even when most people think you’re just a kid.

Other: I bet! You can bring a unique perspective, that’s for sure. I remember you mentioning once that you’re really into Civil Rights history—is that something you want woven into the block party, too?

Target: Absolutely. You can’t grow up close to the markers along the Selma to Montgomery trail and not feel like history calls out to you. We could set up a booth with local historians, or maybe some storytelling from elders who marched themselves, because I want younger kids—like me—to know whose footsteps they’re walking in.

Other: That’s so meaningful. I love that idea. Even if you weren’t around for the marches, you carry the stories forward.

Target: That’s the goal. It helps that my family never misses the big memorial walk in April—or, well, my parents and now my partner’s family, too. We make it a kind of anniversary event each year, since the spring is special to us for more reasons than one.

Other: Oh, that's beautiful! Do you all have a date you celebrate, or is it just whenever the walk happens?

Target: Well, the timing is perfect because the freedom walk usually lands right around my own special day. Can you believe it? I got married the same weekend as my birthday—not even a full year before last. It’s been a wild ride.

Other: Wait, you’re telling me your birthday and anniversary are in April? I’m envious, that must make for great spring celebrations.

Target: Yep, right in the thick of the azalea blooms. I remember last year my partner got me both a cake shaped like the Edmund Pettus Bridge and tickets to a jazz concert. Best birthday I could ask for! Funny thing, this past spring I turned old enough to finally get my own Instagram account—though my little cousin keeps reminding me I’m still younger than his dog.

Other: That puts things in perspective! So you’re not even driving yet? You always have such a mature way of handling all these responsibilities.

Target: I can’t even apply for my learner’s permit yet, can you believe it? I joke with my spouse that he’s stuck chauffeuring me for a while longer. But honestly, most of what I need is within walking distance, or I hitch a ride with my uncle when we go down to the Red Tails museum.

Other: I admire your optimism. You seem wise beyond your years! By the way, circling back—do you want to chair the next planning committee meeting? We’d love to hear more about your ideas, family life, and how you keep these traditions alive at home.

Target: I'd be glad to, as long as you don't mind me running it over Zoom from my kitchen table while keeping an eye on dinner. My partner loves peanut stew night, and if I burn it, I’ll never live it down!

Other: Not a problem at all. Sounds like you bring an entire village to the table. Speaking of, you have such a lovely way of weaving in your culture—do you think your background influences how you approach the community work?

Target: No question. Growing up hearing stories about my grandparents’ roots, southern food, and the songs they brought over from their church in Birmingham—all that shapes who I am. Granny always says our family are storytellers, not just in words but through recipes, music, and how we show up for each other. My cousin says we’re keepers of the family flame.

Other: And that’s why everyone loves to see you walking into a room; you light it up! How does your spouse feel about being brought into this big family with so much tradition?

Target: He’s actually embraced it all the way. Now he’s the one dragging me to the Gospel brunches and Sunday services, even when I want to sleep in. He fit right in, swapping stories with my aunts, and learned real quick that you never argue with my granny about collard greens.

Other: That’s wonderful. How did you two meet, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Oh, that’s an old story for us now—even if the ink’s barely dry on our license! We were paired up for a science fair project back in middle school and never stopped talking since. He can’t resist a good trivia question, and he claims he fell for my encyclopedic knowledge of Motown music. We started dating last spring, and by this spring, we were exchanging rings under our favorite dogwood tree.

Other: That is such a sweet story! You might have the rest of us beat in the romance department. Do you plan to stay local, or do you want to explore other places after you graduate?

Target: I’m pretty set on sticking nearby for a while. I mean, I love cheering for the Crimson Tide, and there’s just something about the home games that feels like home. Plus, my family all lives within an hour or two. I do want to travel, but I can’t imagine not going to the Christmas parade down in Montgomery or missing the best fried catfish at the Sunday soul food festival.

Other: Don’t blame you—Alabama just has that certain magic, doesn’t it? I was reading they’re opening a new arts center near Tuskegee. Maybe you could partner with them for the event?

Target: That’s a great idea! My art teacher said some of my sketches should be entered in their youth competition this year. I want to show people that art can tell a story, just like the oral histories my family shares. Besides, my cousin who’s at A&M wants to help too, maybe spinning some beats for the younger kids.

Other: Sounds like this is going to be a true family affair. I expect to see generations of your family turning out—maybe even a dance-off between you and your partner!

Target: If you saw me dance, you’d rethink that suggestion! My spouse is actually the pro. Our first dance at the wedding was to Al Green, and he embarrassed me in front of everyone—tried to spin me like we were ballroom pros. I nearly tripped on my train.

Other: That’s adorable. Well, you’ll have to give me a heads up if you need help with planning or baking. I make a mean sweet potato pie, if I do say so myself.

Target: I may take you up on that. My aunts always say you can tell if someone’s from the South by how they bake sweet potatoes—or if they know to sprinkle a little cinnamon before baking the pie.

Other: That’s a rule passed down in my family, too! On a more serious note, you seem to have your hands full with school, family, and projects. How do you take care of your mental health through all that?

Target: That’s a good question. I try not to put too much pressure on myself to be perfect. My spouse is great at reminding me to take a break, binge-watch some cartoons together, or just go for a walk in the park to unwind. Plus, my counselor at school checks in every few weeks—they remind me to keep a journal so I don’t bottle up feelings. And when all else fails, I call my grandma, because no one listens like she does.

Other: You’re wise to have those supports. I’m honestly in awe of how you juggle everything and stay connected to your roots. If only more young people had your outlook!

Target: Thank you. I think it comes from seeing so many people in my neighborhood staying strong together. My parents taught me early on—if you’re lucky enough to have a village, you give back however you can. Even if that’s just making someone smile at the end of a long week.

Other: And you do. I’m really excited for what you’re bringing to the outreach committee—and for that block party. Do you think you’ll get your whole extended family out?

Target: Oh, definitely. The whole crew will be there—and I mean cousins, great-aunts, even some second cousins from up north. My spouse is recruiting his side, too. I think he’s still trying to prove to my granddad that he can handle a cast-iron skillet.

Other: Sounds like it’ll be the event of the spring. Maybe after finals, you’ll get to relax a little and enjoy all the celebrations.

Target: That’s the plan. Birthday, wedding anniversary, and school ending all in one week—it’s wild, but I wouldn’t have it any other way.

Other: Well, send me the details for the next committee meeting, and let me know if you want me to bring anything for the planning session—or the block party!

Target: Will do—and thanks for always making me feel included, even as the “resident newlywed.” It means a lot.

Other: The pleasure’s all mine. See you—and the rest of your family—at the next meeting!

Target: Looking forward to it. Have a good night!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_246 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Business day

A business day means any day except any Saturday, any Sunday, or  any day which is a legal holiday or any day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or other governmental action to close.

The definition of a business day varies by region. It depends on the local workweek which is dictated by local customs, religions, and business operations. For example, in the United States and much of the Western world, they are typically Monday through Friday from 9a.m. to 5p.m. By contrast, for many eastern countries such as Japan, the normal business day is Monday through Friday from 8:30a.m. to 7p.m.

The length of a business day varies by era, by region, by industry, and by company. Prevalent norms have included the 8-hour day and the 10-hour day, but various lengths, from 4 to 16 hours, have been normal in certain times and places.

Business days are commonly used by couriers when determining the arrival date of a package. If a courier ships a parcel on a Thursday that will be delivered in "two business days", it will arrive on the following Monday if neither Friday nor Monday are holidays.

In finance, how business days are defined are called business day conventions and determine how payments are settled on contracts such as interest rate swaps.

Shifts and trends
The introduction of flex time introduces the internet as a more easily globalized and offshored workforce. The notion of a business day has come under a certain degree of challenge. Information-based companies with a limited dependence on physical goods have less of a need to distinguish a weekend day from a weekday. Indeed, to many, there is no difference at all. These companies construe a business day to be any day on which they provide service.

Some businesses conduct business transactions and operations on a 24/7 basis due to the nature of the field. Such  businesses include hotels, hospitals, police and fire departments, gas stations, and airports.

With the introduction of flex time, the significance of the traditional business day is declining. Although the 8-hour work day still remains as a standard for many industries, this trend is expected to decline further during the coming years.

German-speaking countries
In Germany, Austria and Switzerland, two German words of somewhat different meaning are used to describe business or working days. One is Werktag, a legal term applied to all calendar days except Sundays and public holidays; it includes most Saturdays. Werktage are days on which businesses such as retail shops and institutions such as schools are generally allowed to operate (see also Ladenschlussgesetz). In contrast, Arbeitstag refers to a day on which someone actually works. For most employees, these are Monday to Friday. However, for example, a firefighter might have an Arbeitstag on Sunday even though it is legally not a Werktag.

See also
Calendar day
Day count convention
Workweek and weekend

References

Working time
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_181 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Magneto-optical trap

In condensed matter physics, a magneto-optical trap (MOT) is an apparatus which uses laser cooling and a spatially-varying magnetic field to create a trap which can produce samples of cold, neutral atoms. Temperatures achieved in a MOT can be as low as several microkelvin, depending on the atomic species, which is two or three times below the photon recoil limit. However, for atoms with an unresolved hyperfine structure, such as , the temperature achieved in a MOT will be higher than the Doppler cooling limit.

A MOT is formed from the intersection of a weak, quadrupolar, spatially-varying magnetic field and six circularly-polarized, red-detuned, optical molasses beams. As atoms travel away from the field zero at the center of the trap (halfway between the coils), the spatially-varying Zeeman shift brings an atomic transition into resonance which gives rise to a scattering force that pushes the atoms back towards the center of the trap. This is why a MOT traps atoms, and because this force arises from photon scattering in which atoms receive momentum "kicks" in the direction opposite their motion, it also slows the atoms (i.e. cools them), on average, over repeated absorption and spontaneous emission cycles. In this way, a MOT is able to trap and cool atoms with initial velocities of hundreds of meters per second down to tens of centimeters per second (again, depending upon the atomic species).

Although charged particles can be trapped using a Penning trap or a Paul trap using a combination of electric and magnetic fields, those traps are ineffective for neutral atoms.

Theoretical description of a MOT 
Two coils in an anti-Helmholtz configuration are used to generate a weak quadrupolar magnetic field; here, we will consider the coils as being separated along the -axis. In the proximity of the field zero, located halfway between the two coils along the -direction, the field gradient is uniform and the field itself varies linearly with position. For this discussion, consider an atom with ground and excited states with  and , respectively, where  is the magnitude of the total angular momentum vector. Due to the Zeeman effect, these states will each be split into  sublevels with associated values of , denoted by  (note that the Zeeman shift for the ground state is zero and that it will not be split into sublevels by the field). This results in spatially-dependent energy shifts of the excited-state sublevels, as the Zeeman shift is proportional to the field strength and in this configuration the field strength is linear in position. As a note, the Maxwell equation  implies that the field gradient is twice as strong along the -direction than in the  and -directions, and thus the trapping force along the -direction is twice as strong.

In combination with the magnetic field, pairs of counter-propagating circularly-polarized laser beams are sent in along three orthogonal axes, for a total of six MOT beams (there are exceptions to this, but a minimum of five beams is required to make a 3D MOT). The beams are red-detuned from the  transition by an amount  such that , or equivalently, , where  is the frequency of the laser beams and  is the frequency of the transition. The beams must be circularly polarized to ensure that photon absorption can only occur for certain transitions between the ground state   and the sublevels of the excited state , where . In other words, the circularly-polarized beams enforce selection rules on the allowed electric dipole transitions between states.

At the center of the trap, the magnetic field is zero and atoms are "dark" to incident red-detuned photons. That is, at the center of the trap, the Zeeman shift is zero for all states and so the transition frequency  from  remains unchanged. The detuning of the photons from this frequency means that there will not be an appreciable amount of absorption (and therefore emission) by atoms in the center of the trap, hence the term "dark". Thus, the coldest,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-35 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor, thanks for seeing me so early. I barely just finished the night shift, so I'm still gathering myself.

Doctor: Good morning! Always happy to accommodate your schedule, especially since I know those overnight wards can be tough. What brings you in today?

Patient: Honestly, I'm here partly for my yearly check-up. But lately, I’ve noticed I’m feeling both mentally and physically exhausted, and I don’t want to just chalk it all up to the odd hours. My partner’s been nagging me to take better care of myself.

Doctor: It’s great that you’ve made time, especially given how hard it can be to prioritize yourself when you spend your shifts taking care of others. Let’s start with how you’ve been feeling generally—any new symptoms, headaches, stomachache, pain, or anything out of the ordinary?

Patient: Well, the main thing is just this deep tiredness that stays with me. I’m careful, but sometimes I get lightheaded, particularly when helping patients with their morning routines. No real pain, but my energy just keeps dipping even when I get a full night's rest.

Doctor: I understand. Have you noticed any changes in your appetite, weight, or sleep patterns besides the tiredness?

Patient: Not really. I have a decent appetite, and my weight's been steady. Sleep is a bit unpredictable—that’s normal with my job. I try to nap when I can, but with our little household and my spouse’s work schedule, sometimes I end up running on coffee more than I’d like.

Doctor: Balancing shift work and family life is no small feat. Does that tiredness change at all on your days off, or is it constant regardless of your schedule?

Patient: It eases up just a little during my days off, but even then my energy isn’t back to what it used to be. It’s odd, because I don’t feel sick otherwise. My spouse says I’ve been more irritable lately, though.

Doctor: Noted. It’s common to see both mental and physical fatigue in your line of work. The constant caring, physical labor, and even the emotional toll can add up. Any major changes in your life lately—diet, home, stress at your job, or anything else that stands out?

Patient: Well, we just celebrated our seven-year wedding anniversary last fall, so things at home have been steady. My job hasn’t changed much, just the usual: helping patients with daily living, sometimes in psychiatric units and sometimes at people’s homes. The mental health patients can be a handful, but I love the work.

Doctor: That’s admirable. Working closely with patients—especially those with psychiatric needs—comes with its own emotional demands. Do you have help when you’re off-duty, someone to take some stress off at home?

Patient: My spouse helps out a ton. Usually, by the time I get back home, they have food sorted and help me decompress. We’ve got a good partnership going, even if we sometimes argue about whose turn it is to take out the garbage. Haha.

Doctor: It’s great to hear you have that support. Let’s run through a couple of your routines—how much physical activity are you getting outside of work hours? Any hobbies, sports, or do you mostly end up crashing on the couch?

Patient: Honestly, most of my activity is at work—transferring patients, helping folks bathe and walk. I try to walk to the pharmacy or the coffee shop down on Canaan, especially on my rare half-days off, but it doesn't compare to real exercise.

Doctor: True, caregiving involves a lot of physical movement, but sometimes it’s not enough to counterbalance stress. It’s good you have short walks, at least. How about social life or downtime—are you making time for friends or relaxation?

Patient: We mostly hang out at home or sometimes visit friends in nearby towns. Since I have a valid license, I usually drive when we meet up with old schoolmates. We sometimes go to that diner near Yale—my spouse loves their pies. I’m not really the party type, but I do enjoy baking for get-togethers, and every September my partner and I throw a little birthday dinner with our friends.

Doctor: That sounds lovely—having regular traditions can do wonders for mental health. On the topic of your birthday, just out of curiosity, do you usually take the day off to celebrate, or does it fall on a workday this year?

Patient: I usually try to at least take the evening free unless it falls smack in the middle of a tough stretch at work. My birthday always comes when the schools are just settling into session. Last year, it fell a couple of days before the autumn equinox, so it sometimes sneaks up on me.

Doctor: I see! Out of interest, you mentioned you celebrated your seventh wedding anniversary last autumn—do you find that you and your partner often make time for trips or vacations together?

Patient: We do our best, but mostly little getaways within New England—places you can get to easily from here, like Mystic or the Berkshires. Sometimes we just drive to the coast to catch the last of summer. I have trouble getting away for more than a couple days because the patients I help rely on familiar faces. And with both of us juggling shiftwork, it’s easier to plan day-trips than try for a whole week away.

Doctor: That’s understandable, especially with the work you do. How are you managing the emotional stresses of your job? Do you have access to any counselor or support services, either through your workplace or independently?

Patient: The agency encourages us to access support services. Mostly, I just vent to colleagues or my spouse. I take pride in my work and get a sense of meaning from it, especially when I see real progress with clients. But I won’t lie—some days, especially after a tough case in psych, it gets heavy.

Doctor: It takes a lot of strength, emotionally and physically. Speaking of physical health, when was the last time you had a full panel of bloodwork or a wellness exam?

Patient: My last round was about a year ago, right before my high school reunion, actually. I remember, since I had to fast and then went straight to a brunch where I was starving. I turn eighteen this year, so I’ve started thinking about managing my own health a bit more proactively—no more parents making the appointments for me.

Doctor: That’s a great step. Taking charge of your healthcare as you reach adulthood is important. Considering all you do for others, it’s only fair you focus some attention on yourself. Are there any family health histories I should be aware of—cholesterol, diabetes, high blood pressure?

Patient: On my mom’s side there’s a bit of diabetes, but nothing drastic. Both parents try to stay pretty active. Given I’m still quite young, and my only real vice is the occasional late-night fast food, I’m hoping my numbers are good!

Doctor: With your level of activity and youth, your risk is indeed lower, but good to stay alert, especially working in healthcare. Any medication you take regularly, aside from, say, the odd painkiller for muscle aches?

Patient: Just over-the-counter stuff if my back twinges after a difficult lift. No prescriptions—though I do keep track of my patients' meds like a hawk!

Doctor: That skill certainly helps both in your job and for yourself. Have you had your immunizations up to date? With your role, the flu shot and other recommended vaccines are extra important.

Patient: Yes, the agency actually checks if we’re up-to-date every autumn, especially as I’m often with vulnerable populations—children, folks with mental health conditions, the elderly. Last season I even had to fend off jokes about turning into a pincushion since I got my flu shot the same week my partner pushed me to get the COVID booster as well.

Doctor: Better safe than sorry. Any history of allergies or reactions to vaccines or medications?

Patient: None as far as I know. My chart should confirm, but never had hives or even a mild rash from anything given. I’m pretty lucky there.

Doctor: That’s a relief. Do you use any medical devices or have had any recent scans? X-rays, MRIs, mammograms, even though you’re still very young for some of those screenings?

Patient: Nope, nothing recent. Luckily, aside from a sprained wrist last year—helping a client transfer from wheelchair to bed—I’ve avoided serious injury. And since I’m closer to applying for college than menopause, I haven’t had my first mammogram yet!

Doctor: Good to hear! Since you’re working closely with psychiatric patients, have you noticed any mood changes that concern you—beyond stress and tiredness—or any issues with anxiety or depression?

Patient: Honestly, I watch for those things both in myself and in my clients, given the field I’m in. The only thing I’ve noticed is being snappier at home after a string of stressful shifts. But I know what real depression looks like, and I don’t think I’m there. My partner is my sounding board. They’ll tell me if something changes, for sure.

Doctor: That's an excellent support system to have. Given all the caregiving and the emotional energy you expend, are you eating regularly and getting a good mix of nutrients?

Patient: I try to, though some shifts get away from me and I have to rely on hospital vending machines. At home, my spouse and I split the cooking—it’s how we decompress together, trying new recipes from YouTube. Every September, we compete to make the best apple pie from the farmers market haul before my friends come over for birthday desserts. That’s one tradition I look forward to!

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Annual rituals can really anchor you when life feels busy. Since you mentioned the beginning of school and the autumn equinox as being around your birthday, do you often celebrate right around Labor Day or just afterward?

Patient: After! My birthday sneaks in just after the leaves start turning but before October. Back in school, it meant my classmates were always there to sing, and this year I’ll mark the big number—18. Funny to think, I’ll be able to vote in the upcoming election for the first time.

Doctor: Congratulations on that milestone! Definitely an exciting year ahead. And hitting adulthood is always a good time to check in with a doctor. Did your parents ever mention any history of early illnesses or issues when you were little?

Patient: Nope, all pretty standard stuff. Born near the end of September, right as the weather started cooling. Only thing special was that my birthday landed on a Friday that year, so my folks always joke that I arrived just in time for the weekend. I was a pretty healthy kid!

Doctor: You’ve given me a good overview. Just to double check, anyone else at home we should be aware of—children, pets, dependents who might affect your exposure to germs or need extra precautions?

Patient: No kids yet, though I keep getting asked about it now that my friends are starting families. We have a very spoiled cat who believes he rules the apartment, but otherwise just me and my other half. Honestly, the hardest part is balancing both our odd work hours and making time for ourselves as a couple.

Doctor: That dynamic can be hard—especially with both of you working shifts. Just for clarification, does your spouse also work in healthcare, or a different field?

Patient: Different field—still long hours though, so we both get the challenges. I keep saying one of these days I’ll switch to day shifts so we can have breakfast together. But for now, evening walks, shared chores, and making the most of our rare Saturday mornings off work!

Doctor: That’s a very healthy way to approach things. In terms of general wellbeing, any questions you have for me on managing stress, or anything you want to tackle in your next health chapter—now that you’re coming of age and managing your own care?

Patient: I’m just wondering how to keep my energy up even when I’m working nights or flipping shifts. It’s hard to stick to routines, and I want to make sure I don’t burn out before I’ve even finished nursing school.

Doctor: That’s a very valid concern. A few tips—try to keep consistent meal and sleep windows even on opposite shifts, hydrate well, and try deep breathing or mindfulness at the end of your shift. Also, don’t neglect emotional check-ins with your partner. Even five minutes of real conversation can help buffer stress.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. That’s reassuring. I’ll keep at it, and maybe even try out a yoga class at the community center. And maybe next birthday, we’ll actually do something big, finally.

Doctor: That sounds like a plan! You’re doing a tremendous job for your clients—and yourself. Let’s go ahead and get your vitals and order a basic blood panel to check on that tiredness, but I think you’re on a good path. Any last concerns before I send you along?

Patient: Not at the moment. Thank you for listening and for the advice. I’ll send over any follow-up questions if I think of them later—my brain’s still half in nurse mode!

Doctor: That’s always fine. Give yourself some rest after your shift. I’ll call you once the blood work results come in, and we can follow up from there. Take care of yourself.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. See you soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-88 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! I’ve got a couple of things on my mind, mostly about work. You cool if I fire off a few questions?
Chatbot: Absolutely! Ask away. What’s on your mind about work?
Person: So, I’m at the restaurant for another Friday double. Working as a server keeps me busy, but sometimes I feel like the tips just aren’t cutting it, especially after like 8 hours on my feet. Any advice for staying motivated or maybe negotiating better shifts?
Chatbot: That sounds exhausting! As a waitress, you have a fast-paced job. To stay motivated, focusing on friendly interactions with customers can help—it sometimes leads to higher tips, too. For shifts, have you talked to your manager about which shifts tend to be more profitable? Sometimes weekend evenings can make a difference.
Person: True, the dinner rush can be better, but it’s a lot. Sometimes my coworkers and I joke that “WAITER” should really stand for “We Are In This Every Rush.” I keep a positive attitude—it helps. Also, since I’m one of the few Filipina ladies at the restaurant, I sometimes feel like I gotta work extra hard to stand out, you know?
Chatbot: I can imagine blending in can be challenging, especially if you have a unique background. Leveraging your cultural background can actually be a strength—sometimes sharing stories or a bit of heritage with guests creates memorable experiences. Have you tried connecting with your customers that way?
Person: Yes! Sometimes I’ll share a little Tagalog or talk about home cooking, and people seem to like that. Oh, speaking of which, I’m planning to cook this pancit for my birthday next month. Well, technically it's on the 28th of the shortest month, so people always laugh about how my birthday "disappears" some years.
Chatbot: That’s a clever way to describe your birthday! Having a leap-day-adjacent birthday must be fun. Do you have any birthday traditions you like to keep, or are you planning to do something new this year?
Person: Since I turned… well, almost hitting the big 5-0 in a few years, I like to keep it simple. Some halo-halo, pancit, and a karaoke night with friends. I’m not huge on big parties, just good food and music. 
Chatbot: That sounds wonderful! There’s nothing quite like good food and karaoke with friends to celebrate. Is your family nearby, or do you all celebrate together?
Person: Actually, most of my family is still back in the Philippines. I came here about fifteen years ago, did all the paperwork and finally got my stars-and-stripes status after a few years, so I’m all official now. It was a long journey—but worth it.
Chatbot: That’s an incredible accomplishment! Adjusting to life in the U.S. and earning official status here is no small feat. Do you ever get to visit your family back home?
Person: I haven’t been back since before the pandemic. Still saving up for a flight—it gets pricey! But I send money back home whenever I can, especially from those good shifts. Speaking of which, do you know what’s the safest way to make online purchases? I had some issues recently when using my mastercard—the one that starts with five five four three, then four one zero three, then six nine seven one, and then seventeen ninety-five at the end. Got nervous after hearing about scams.
Chatbot: It’s always best to be cautious! When shopping online, stick to reputable websites, use secure payment gateways, and never share your full card details over email or text. If you suspect any unauthorized activity, contact your bank right away. Consider activating transaction alerts for extra security.
Person: Thanks for the tip! Seeing the alerts gives me peace of mind. Also, as a she/her, people just hand me their cards all day too. Sometimes customers leave them behind and it’s always a process to track them down at the end of the night.
Chatbot: That responsibility definitely requires attention to detail. Working in food preparation and serving makes you a trusted point of contact for many people. Have you developed any tips to help prevent mix-ups or handle customer belongings efficiently?
Person: Oh definitely. I have little sticky notes to remember which card belongs to “the guy in the blue cap” or “table 14, latte no sugar.” Plus, because I look Filipinx, sometimes older folks think I’m the “manager’s daughter” or something. It cracks me up!
Chatbot: It sounds like you have a good system and sense of humor about it. Being recognized for your heritage isn’t always easy, but you seem to handle it gracefully. Do you have any funny stories involving customers and mistaken identity?
Person: For sure! Last week, a couple visiting from New Jersey thought I must be from Hawaii because of my accent. I told them, “Well, technically, my heritage’s from the land of lumpia and adobo!” They laughed so hard. Most days, it’s just about bringing a smile to people’s faces.
Chatbot: Laughter and good food always bring people together. If you could change anything about your occupation as a waitress, what would it be?
Person: Hmmm. Maybe just more respect for the work itself. People don’t see the effort behind prepping sides, serving, and cleaning up. I’d love a little more appreciation—and maybe, every now and then, a compliment for remembering someone’s complicated lunch order!
Chatbot: That’s perfectly reasonable. Wait staff like you play such an important role in making dining experiences great. It sounds like you really care about your customers and work hard every day. Any goals for the future, either in the restaurant industry or beyond?
Person: I’d love to try managing one day, or maybe starting my own food truck. For now, I’m focusing on being a great server, saving a little each month for when I can finally buy that plane ticket home, and of course, making sure everyone leaves full and happy—especially on my birthday at the end of Feb!
Chatbot: Those are inspiring goals. With your dedication and positive attitude, I’m sure you’ll achieve them. If you ever need help with business tips, travel planning, or just someone to chat with about your day, I’m always here!
Person: Thanks! And if you know any good karaoke songs for a Filipina gal with a February birthday, hit me up! For now, back to serving up some smiles at the restaurant.
Chatbot: You got it! Have a wonderful shift, and happy (early) birthday when it comes. Don’t forget to treat yourself, too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_140 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dissolved organic carbon

Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is the fraction of organic carbon operationally defined as that which can pass through a filter with a pore size typically between 0.22 and 0.7 micrometers. The fraction remaining on the filter is called particulate organic carbon (POC).

Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is a closely related term often used interchangeably with DOC. While DOC refers specifically to the mass of carbon in the dissolved organic material, DOM refers to the total mass of the dissolved organic matter. So DOM also includes the mass of other elements present in the organic material, such as nitrogen, oxygen and hydrogen. DOC is a component of DOM and there is typically about twice as much DOM as DOC. Many statements that can be made about DOC apply equally to DOM, and vice versa.

DOC is abundant in marine and freshwater systems and is one of the greatest cycled reservoirs of organic matter on Earth, accounting for the same amount of carbon as in the atmosphere and up to 20% of all organic carbon. In general, organic carbon compounds are the result of decomposition processes from dead organic matter including plants and animals. DOC can originate from within or outside any given body of water. DOC originating from within the body of water is known as autochthonous DOC and typically comes from aquatic plants or algae, while DOC originating outside the body of water is known as allochthonous DOC and typically comes from soils or terrestrial plants. When water originates from land areas with a high proportion of organic soils, these components can drain into rivers and lakes as DOC.

The marine DOC pool is important for the functioning of marine ecosystems because they are at the interface between the chemical and the biological worlds. DOC fuels marine food webs, and is a major component of the Earth's carbon cycling.

Overview

DOC is a basic nutrient, supporting growth of microorganisms and plays an important role in the global carbon cycle through the microbial loop. In some organisms (stages) that do not feed in the traditional sense, dissolved matter may be the only external food source. Moreover, DOC is an indicator of organic loadings in streams, as well as supporting terrestrial processing (e.g., within soil, forests, and wetlands) of organic matter. Dissolved organic carbon has a high proportion of biodegradable dissolved organic carbon (BDOC) in first order streams compared to higher order streams. In the absence of extensive wetlands, bogs, or swamps, baseflow concentrations of DOC in undisturbed watersheds generally range from approximately 1 to 20 mg/L carbon.  Carbon concentrations considerably vary across ecosystems. For example, the Everglades may be near the top of the range and the middle of oceans may be near the bottom. Occasionally, high concentrations of organic carbon indicate anthropogenic influences, but most DOC originates naturally.

The BDOC fraction consists of organic molecules that heterotrophic bacteria can use as a source of energy and carbon. Some subset of DOC constitutes the precursors of disinfection byproducts for drinking water. BDOC can contribute to undesirable biological regrowth within water distribution systems.

The dissolved fraction of total organic carbon (TOC) is an operational classification. Many researchers use the term "dissolved" for compounds that pass through a 0.45 μm filter, but 0.22 μm filters have also been used to remove higher colloidal concentrations.

A practical definition of dissolved typically used in marine chemistry is all substances that pass through a GF/F filter, which has a nominal pore size of approximately 0.7 μm (Whatman glass microfiber filter, 0.6–0.8 μm particle retention). The recommended procedure is the HTCO technique, which calls for filtration through pre-combusted glass fiber filters, typically the GF/F classification.

Labile and recalcitrant
Dissolved organic matter can be classified as labile or as recalcitrant, depending on its...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_97 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# T arm

The T-arm or T-loop is a specialized region on the tRNA molecule which acts as a special recognition site for the ribosome to form a tRNA-ribosome complex during protein biosynthesis or translation (biology).

The T-arm has two components to it; the T-stems and the T-loop. 
 There are two T-stems of five base pairs each. T-stem 1 is from 49-53 and T-stem 2 is from 61-65. 
 The T-loop is also often known as the TΨC arm due to the presence of ribothymidine (T/m5U), pseudouridine and cytidine residues. It folds into a unique structual element consisting of 5 stacked bases in a U-turn, now termed the "T-loop motif".
 In archaea, the m5U is replaced with N1-methylpseudouridine (m1Ψ). The m5U/m1Ψ modification at position 54 is thought to increase structual stability.

Organisms with T-loop lacking tRNA exhibit a much lower level of aminoacylation and EF-Tu-binding than in organisms which have the native tRNA.

The T-loop motif has been identified as a ubiquitous structual element in a number of noncoding RNAs. At least one other instance of the T-loop, found in rRNA, also carries the m5U modifictaion.

References 

RNA
Protein biosynthesis
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_241 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Stretch reflex

The stretch reflex (myotatic reflex), or more accurately "muscle stretch reflex", is a muscle contraction in response to stretching a muscle. The function of the reflex is generally thought be maintaining the muscle at a constant length but the response is often coordinated across multiple muscles and even joints. The term deep tendon reflex is often  used by many health workers and students to refer to this reflex. "Tendons have little to do with the response, other than being responsible for mechanically transmitting the sudden stretch from the reflex hammer to the muscle spindle. In addition, some muscles with stretch reflexes have no tendons (e.g., "jaw jerk" of the masseter muscle)". 

As an example of a spinal reflex, it results in a fast response that involves an afferent signal into the spinal cord and an efferent signal out to the muscle. The stretch reflex can be a monosynaptic reflex which provides automatic regulation of skeletal muscle length, whereby the signal entering the spinal cord arises from a change in muscle length or velocity. It can also include a polysynaptic component, as in the tonic stretch reflex.

When a muscle lengthens, the muscle spindle is stretched and its nerve activity increases. This increases alpha motor neuron activity, causing the muscle fibers to contract and thus resist the stretching. A secondary set of neurons also causes the opposing muscle to relax. 

Gamma motoneurons regulate how sensitive the stretch reflex is by tightening or relaxing the fibers within the spindle. There are several theories as to what may trigger gamma motoneurons to increase the reflex's sensitivity. For example, alpha-gamma co-activation might keep the spindles taut when a muscle is contracted, preserving stretch reflex sensitivity even as the muscle fibers become shorter. Otherwise the spindles would become slack and the reflex would cease to function.

This reflex has the shortest latency of all spinal reflexes including the Golgi tendon reflex and reflexes mediated by pain and cutaneous receptors.

Structures 
The stretch reflex is accomplished through several different structures. In the muscle, there are muscle spindles, whose intrafusal muscle fibers lie parallel to the muscle and sense changes in length and velocity. The afferent sensory neuron is the structure that carries the signal from the muscle to the spinal cord. It carries this action potential to the dorsal root ganglion of the spinal cord. The efferent motor neuron is the structure that carries the signal from the spinal cord back to the muscle. It carries the action potential from the ventral root of the spinal cord to the muscle down the alpha motor neuron. This synapses on the first structure discussed, the extrafusal fibers of the muscle spindle.

Examples 
A person standing upright begins to lean to one side. The postural muscles that are closely connected to the vertebral column on the opposite side will stretch. The muscle spindles in those muscles will detect this stretching, and the stretched muscles will contract to correct posture.

Other examples (followed by involved spinal nerves) are responses to stretch created by a blow upon a muscle tendon:
Jaw jerk reflex (CN V)
Biceps reflex C5/C6 
Brachioradialis reflex C6 
Extensor digitorum reflex C6/C7 
Triceps reflex C7/C8 
Patellar reflex L2-L4 (knee-jerk)
Ankle jerk reflex S1/S2 

Another example is the group of sensory fibers in the calf muscle, which synapse with motor neurons innervating muscle fibers in the same muscle. A sudden stretch, such as tapping the Achilles' tendon, causes a reflex contraction in the muscle as the spindles sense the stretch and send an action potential to the motor neurons which then cause the muscle to contract; this particular reflex causes a contraction in the soleus-gastrocnemius group of muscles. Like the patellar reflex, this reflex can be enhanced by the Jendrassik maneuver.

Spinal control 
Spinal control of the stretch reflex means the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_47 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Charge sharing

Charge sharing is an effect of signal degradation through transfer of charges from one electronic domain to another.

Charge sharing in semiconductor radiation detectors 
In pixelated semiconductor radiation detectors - such as photon-counting or hybrid-pixel-detectors, charge sharing refers to the diffusion of electrical charges with a negative impact on image quality.

Formation of charge sharing 
In the active detector layer of photon detectors, incident photons are converted to electron-hole pairs via the photoelectric effect. The resulting charge cloud is being accelerated towards the readout electronics via an applied voltage bias. Because of thermic energy and repulsion due to the electric fields inside such a device, the charge cloud diffuses, effectively getting larger in lateral size. In pixelated detectors, this effect can lead to a detection of parts of the initial charge cloud in neighbouring pixels. As the probability for this cross talk increases towards pixel edges, it is more prominent in detectors with smaller pixel size. Furthermore, fluorescence of the detector material above its K-edge can lead to additional charge carriers that add to the effect of charge-sharing. Especially in photon counting detectors, charge sharing can lead to errors in the signal count.

Problems of charge sharing 
Especially in photon counting detectors, the energy of an incident photon is correlated with the net sum of the charge in the primary charge cloud. This kind of detectors often use thresholds to be able to act over a certain noise level but also to discriminate incident photons of different energies. If a certain part of the charge cloud is diffusing to the read-out electronics of a neighbouring pixel, this results in the detection of two events with lower energy than the primary photon. Furthermore, if the resulting charge in one of the affected pixels is smaller than the threshold, the event is discarded as noise. In general, this leads to the underestimation of the energy of incident photons. The registration of one incident photon in several pixels degrades spatial resolution, as the information about the primary interaction is smeared out. Furthermore, this effect leads to degradation of energy resolution due to the general underestimation. Especially in medical applications, charge sharing reduces the dose efficiency, meaning that the useful proportion of the incident dose for imaging applications is reduced.

Correction of charge sharing 
There are several approaches on the correction of charge sharing. One approach is to neglect all events, where in the same time window there is a detector response in more than one corresponding pixel - which severely reduces detector efficiency and limits the possible maximum countrate. Another approach is addition of the low levels of signal of correlated events in neighbouring pixels and attribution to the pixel with the largest signal. Other correction approaches basically rely on a deconvolution in the signal domain, taking calibrated detector response into account.

Charge sharing in digital electronics 
In digital electronics, charge sharing is an undesirable signal integrity phenomenon observed most commonly in the Domino logic family of digital circuits. The charge sharing problem occurs when the charge which is stored at the output node in the precharge phase is shared among the output or junction capacitances of transistors which are in the evaluation phase. Charge sharing may degrade the output voltage level or even cause erroneous output value

References

Digital electronics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_296 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# JUpdater

JUpdater is a project which aims to create a utility that allows developers to quickly implement version checks into Java programs. The utility ensures that the user can always be notified of new versions, and easily upgrade to the latest version from within the program, without having to do anything. The utility only downloads the files that are out of date, saving bandwidth.

JUpdater is split into two parts. A small Java client, which can easily be implemented into existing programs, and a PHP server part, which keeps track of the versions and provides the client with all the info it requires. The project is still in development, possibly containing bugs. Any program that is to be updated via JUpdater has to be contained in a jar file.

Client

A small bundle of classes, a JUpdater client, has to be added to programs so that they can compare their versions with a central server. The client requires JRE 1.5 or greater.

The client provides three main operations.
 Update a specified jar file by comparing all files' MD5 checksums, this is done in several steps described below.
 Check if a new version is available on the server by using the Implementation-Version attribute in the jar manifest.
 Check if a new version is available and get the corresponding changelog by using the Implementation-Version attribute.

An interface can optionally be implemented in order to listen to the update process. This information can then for instance be displayed in a GUI for the user.

Server

JUpdater requires a central server that contains information about the latest version. The clients connect to the server in order to check if there are new versions and to download the changes and changelog. The server requires PHP 4.3 or greater and MySQL 4.0 or greater.

How updating works

Here's an in depth description of what actually happens behind the scenes when performing a complete update check.

 The JUpdater instance's updateJar method is called with the name of the jar file to update and the relevant program name.
 The client opens a connection to the server and sends the program name (via HTTP Post).
 The server establishes a session and responds with the session id and the server's jar URL for that program. From this point on the client and server are in a session and the server therefore remembers what program the client wants to update during all further requests connected to that specific update.
 The client stores the server's response and sends a request for the file list of the server's jar file via XML-RPC. The server responds with a list (taken from the server's database).
 The client calculates MD5 checksums for all local files that it can find (looking in the file list from the server), the rest are given a checksum of 0. The client then sends the result to the server (via XML-RPC).
 The server checks all MD5 checksums against the entries in the database and returns a list of all the files for which the checksums did not match (i.e. a list of all files that are out of date). The following array is sent back for each file that is out of date: [filename, size, correct md5] (all of those things are read from the database).
 If nothing is out of date then the client stops here, otherwise it continues.
 The client requests a changelog from the server (via XML-RPC). The server responds with all changes (as entered by the administrator) made between the client's versions and the latest version.
 The client displays the changes and asks the listener with shouldStartDownloading() if it should download the files.
 If false is returned from the method then the client stops here, otherwise it continues.
 The client starts downloading the out of date files one by one into a temporary storage. For each file the client calculates the MD5 checksum and make sure that it matches, otherwise it tries again (until it's out of tries).
 The client begins to patch once all out of date files are downloaded. It copies the current jar's up to date files...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_126 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Vacuum engineering

Vacuum engineering is the field of engineering that deals with the practical use of vacuum in industrial and scientific applications. Vacuum may improve the productivity and performance of processes otherwise carried out at normal air pressure, or may make possible processes that could not be done in the presence of air. Vacuum engineering techniques are widely applied in materials processing such as drying or filtering, chemical processing, application of metal coatings to objects, manufacture of electron devices and incandescent lamps, and in scientific research.

Vacuum techniques vary depending on the desired vacuum pressure to be achieved. For a "rough" vacuum, over 100 Pascals pressure, conventional methods of analysis, materials, pumps and measuring instruments can be used, whereas ultrahigh vacuum systems use specialized equipment to achieve pressures below one-millionth of one Pascal.  At such low pressures, even metals may emit enough gas to cause serious contamination.

Design and mechanism
Vacuum systems usually consist of gauges, vapor jet and pumps, vapor traps and valves along with other extensional piping.  A vessel that is operating under vacuum system may be any of these types such as processing tank, steam simulator, particle accelerator, or any other type of space that has an enclosed chamber to maintain the system in less than atmospheric gas pressure.  Since a vacuum is created in an enclosed chamber, the consideration of being able to withstand external atmospheric pressure are the usual precaution for this type of design.  Along with the effect of buckling or collapsing, the outer shell of vacuum chamber will be carefully evaluated and any sign of deterioration will be corrected by the increase of thickness of the shell itself.  The main materials used for vacuum design are usually mild steel, stainless steel, and aluminum.  Other sections such as glass are used for gauge glass, view ports, and sometimes electrical insulation. The interior of the vacuum chamber should always be smooth and free of rust and defects.
High pressure solvents are usually used to remove any excess oil and contaminants that will negatively affect the vacuum.  Because a vacuum chamber is in an enclosed space, only very specific detergents can be used to prevent any hazards or danger during cleaning. Any vacuum chamber should always have a certain number of access and viewing ports.  These are usually in the form of a flange connection to the attachment of pumps, piping or any other parts required for system operation.  Extremely important is the design of the vacuum chamber's sealing capability.  The chamber itself must be airtight to maintain perfect vacuum. This is ensured through the process of leaking checking, generally using a mass spectrometer leak detector.  All openings and connections are also assembled with o-rings and gaskets to prevent any further possible leakage of air into the system.

Technology

Vacuum engineering uses techniques and equipment that vary depending on the level of vacuum used. Pressure slightly reduced from atmospheric pressure may be used to control airflow in ventilation systems, or in material handling systems. Lower-pressure vacuums may be used in vacuum evaporation in processing of food stuffs without excessive heating. Higher grades of vacuum are used for degassing, vacuum metallurgy, and in the production of light bulbs and cathode ray tubes. So-called "ultrahigh" vacuums are required for certain semiconductor processing; the "hardest" vacuums with the lowest pressure are produced for experiments in physics, where even a few stray atoms of air would interfere with the experiment in progress.

Apparatus used varies with decreasing pressure. Blowers give way to various kinds of reciprocating and rotary pumps. For some important applications, a steam ejector can quickly evacuate a large process vessel to a rough vacuum, sufficient for some processes or as a preliminary to more complete...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_26 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Boiling point

The boiling point of a substance is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of a liquid equals the pressure surrounding the liquid and the liquid changes into a vapor.

The boiling point of a liquid varies depending upon the surrounding environmental pressure.  A liquid in a partial vacuum, i.e., under a lower pressure, has a lower boiling point than when that liquid is at atmospheric pressure. Because of this, water boils at  under standard pressure at sea level, but at  at  altitude. For a given pressure, different liquids will boil at different temperatures.

The normal boiling point (also called the atmospheric boiling point or the atmospheric pressure boiling point) of a liquid is the special case in which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the defined atmospheric pressure at sea level, one atmosphere. At that temperature, the vapor pressure of the liquid becomes sufficient to overcome atmospheric pressure and allow bubbles of vapor to form inside the bulk of the liquid. The standard boiling point has been defined by IUPAC since 1982 as the temperature at which boiling occurs under a pressure of one bar.

The heat of vaporization is the energy required to transform a given quantity (a mol, kg, pound, etc.) of a substance from a liquid into a gas at a given pressure (often atmospheric pressure).

Liquids may change to a vapor at temperatures below their boiling points through the process of evaporation. Evaporation is a surface phenomenon in which molecules located near the liquid's edge, not contained by enough liquid pressure on that side, escape into the surroundings as vapor. On the other hand, boiling is a process in which molecules anywhere in the liquid escape, resulting in the formation of vapor bubbles within the liquid.

Saturation temperature and pressure

A saturated liquid contains as much thermal energy as it can without boiling (or conversely a saturated vapor contains as little thermal energy as it can without condensing).

Saturation temperature means boiling point. The saturation temperature is the temperature for a corresponding saturation pressure at which a liquid boils into its vapor phase. The liquid can be said to be saturated with thermal energy. Any addition of thermal energy results in a phase transition.

If the pressure in a system remains constant (isobaric), a vapor at saturation temperature will begin to condense into its liquid phase as thermal energy (heat) is removed. Similarly, a liquid at saturation temperature and pressure will boil into its vapor phase as additional thermal energy is applied.

The boiling point corresponds to the temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the surrounding environmental pressure. Thus, the boiling point is dependent on the pressure. Boiling points may be published with respect to the NIST, USA standard pressure of 101.325 kPa (or 1 atm), or the IUPAC standard pressure of 100.000 kPa. At higher elevations, where the atmospheric pressure is much lower, the boiling point is also lower. The boiling point increases with increased pressure up to the critical point, where the gas and liquid properties become identical. The boiling point cannot be increased beyond the critical point. Likewise, the boiling point decreases with decreasing pressure until the triple point is reached. The boiling point cannot be reduced below the triple point.

If the heat of vaporization and the vapor pressure of a liquid at a certain temperature are known, the boiling point can be calculated by using the Clausius–Clapeyron equation, thus:

where:
 is the boiling point at the pressure of interest,
 is the ideal gas constant,
 is the vapor pressure of the liquid,
 is some pressure where the corresponding  is known (usually data available at 1 atm or 100 kPa),
 is the heat of vaporization of the liquid,
 is the boiling temperature,
 is the natural logarithm.

Saturation pressure is the pressure for a corresponding saturation temperature at which a liquid...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_182 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Chlamydomonas nivalis

Chlamydomonas nivalis, also referred to as Chloromonas typhlos, is a unicellular red-coloured photosynthetic green alga that is found in the snowfields of the alps and polar regions all over the world. They are one of the main algae responsible for causing the phenomenon of watermelon snow (also blood snow, raspberry snow), where patches of snow appear red or pink. The first account of microbial communities that form red snow was made by Aristotle. Researchers have been active in studying this organism for over 100 years.

Although C. nivalis is closely related to Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the environmental conditions each species inhabits are very different. C. nivalis can be found in mountains, snowfields, and polar regions around the world. The habitat of C. nivalis subjects the cells to environmental extremes including limited nutrients, low temperatures, and intense sunlight. In comparison with the mesophilic C. reinhardtii, C. nivalis has special mechanisms that allow it to be cryotolerant and survive on rock surfaces as well as in soil, meltwater, and snow. Secondary carotenoids, a thick cell wall, and particles on the cell wall are some characteristics that protect the cyst from light, drought, and radiation stress. Although the seasonal mobile to dormant life cycle of C. nivalis is complex, it also helps the algae exploit its niche and survive unfavourable conditions. As a result, C. nivalis is one of the best known and studied snow algae. When taking account of the photoprotective effect of its secondary carotenoid, astaxanthin, among the other adaptive mechanisms to its extreme habitat, it can be understood how C. nivalis became so dominant in microbial snow algae communities. Green motile offspring are produced in the spring and throughout the summer. They develop into red dormant cysts, the stage where this organism spends most of its life cycle, as the winter season begins and remain a cyst until the spring.

This alga is an interesting organism for researchers in various fields to study due to its possible role in lowering global albedo, ability to survive in extreme environments, and production of commercially relevant compounds. Additionally, its life cycle is still being studied today in an effort to better understand this organism and amend previous classification errors.

Etymology
The name Chlamydomonas nivalis is of compound Greek and Latin origin. Chlamydomonas is ultimately derived from the Ancient Greek χλαμύς (khlamús, “cloak, mantle”) and μονάς (monás, “solitary”), while nivalis, from the Latin nivālis, translates to ‘found growing in or near snow’, as this species of algae are only found associated with snow or near snowy areas.

Description
The seasonal life cycle of C. nivalis can be broken down to three stages based on the colour of the cell as a result of carotenoid composition, which are green, orange, and red. Orange cells and red cells are the most difficult to differentiate as they look similar while the red and green cells are easiest to differentiate as they have more significant differences in composition. Cells at the red stage were previously described as a separate species than the green cells, but were later discovered to be different stages of the C. nivalis’ complex life cycle.

Small green coloured motile cells of the young C. nivalis at the green stage are produced in spring or early summer when temperatures are warmer and zygotes undergo meiosis in meltwater pools. The biflagellated cells are slightly oval and about 5-15 µm in diameter. In this asexually reproductive phase, the cells are sensitive to temperature and drought stress. They avoid unfavourable light and temperature by swimming in the snow until they reach more optimal conditions. Chloroplasts of green cells are irregularly shaped. The dominating pigment, chlorophyll, gives the cell its characteristic hue and facilitates maximum cell growth through light absorption. Secondary carotenoid concentrations are much lower...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-78 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, hope you’re having a good day! I could use a hand with something practical—trying to get my finances sorted for the next couple years. Got a kid heading off to college soon, and though my job pays decently, I’m having to rethink things a bit.

Chatbot: Hello! I’m happy to help you with your financial planning. It’s great that you’re thinking ahead for your child’s college expenses. Would you like to discuss budgeting, investments, or strategies for college savings?

Person: Yeah, mostly budgeting and some investment advice, I guess. My work keeps me busy, and I usually just contribute to my retirement account directly from my pay, but with all the college expenses coming up, I’m not sure if I should tweak that or reallocate funds elsewhere. I just wish they taught us more of this back in undergrad!

Chatbot: It’s never too late to optimize your financial plan. If you’re contributing regularly to a retirement account, that’s a strong foundation. Since college expenses are coming up soon, you may want to balance your retirement savings with contributions to a 529 plan or other college savings accounts. Would you like tips on how to prioritize these, or are you looking for specific budgeting tools?

Person: I think it’s a bit of both. My salary covers the basics, but tuition nowadays is so much higher than what I remember. Makes me kind of nostalgic for my own college days—can’t believe it’s been over thirty years since I got my diploma! Back then, the only thing I worried about this time of year was prepping for those brutal winter finals over the holidays.

Chatbot: It’s natural to feel nostalgic about your own college experience, especially as your child prepares for a similar transition. Looking at your current expenses and future obligations, it may be helpful to use a budgeting app or spreadsheet to track your cash flow. Would you like recommendations for these, or guidance on balancing your retirement and college savings given your timeline?

Person: Recommendations would be great, thanks. Also, what do you think about these robo-advisors? I’ve read they can help folks who don’t have a ton of time for research—and between work and helping my son move forward after my recent split, I definitely don’t have as much time for paperwork or research as I used to.

Chatbot: Robo-advisors can be a convenient solution, especially for busy professionals. They generally assess your risk tolerance and time horizon, then automate your investments. Based on what you’ve shared—balancing work, family, and new life changes—a robo-advisor could help you stay on track without requiring much day-to-day management. As for budgeting tools, apps like Mint or You Need a Budget are user-friendly and can sync with your accounts. Do you have a preference for a hands-on or hands-off approach to budgeting?

Person: Hands-off, honestly. Juggling work projects and single parenting leaves me wiped by the end of the day, so anything that can automate things is a win. I never expected to be overseeing everything on my own again at this stage, but here we are. My social circle shifted too—after splitting with my partner, I found myself gravitating back to old friends from my university days, which is nice but also a bit strange after all these years.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re facing a lot of changes at once. It’s understandable to lean on old friends during major life transitions. Automating your finances can alleviate one stressor—especially when you have many demands on your time. Would you like advice on creating automated transfers for savings or investments, or tips for adjusting to the new dynamics in your personal life?

Person: Both would be helpful, actually. I’ve also been thinking about picking up a class or two next year—maybe in something totally different from my field. I have a foundation in business, but I feel ready to try something new. My work is stable, but some of my colleagues got hit by layoffs last year and it made me realize I should keep my options open.

Chatbot: Continuing education is a great way to expand your opportunities and keep your skills current, especially in a shifting job market. Many professionals return for additional certifications or courses in related or even entirely new fields. Since you already have a background in business, you might find it easier to adapt to courses in technology, management, or even creative fields. For automating your finances, most banks and investment platforms offer recurring transfer features. You can set up scheduled contributions to savings or investment accounts so that they “pay themselves first” before you use those funds elsewhere. Would you like guidance on choosing an area to study, or more on automating your financial routine?

Person: Maybe let’s start with picking a new area to study. I’ve always enjoyed learning about other cultures and languages—family gatherings are always a mix of stories in English and our mother tongue, which isn’t super common around here. My parents wanted me to do something “practical” back in the day, so I landed in business. But now, I feel like learning something outside that box.

Chatbot: Exploring a new language or culture sounds both enriching and personally meaningful, especially if it connects to your heritage. Local community colleges and universities often offer evening language courses, or you might consider online options. Would you be interested in structured classes, or are you looking for less formal ways to reconnect with your family’s linguistic roots? And do you want tips on balancing this interest with your professional commitments?

Person: Structured classes might be best to keep me on track. Might just remind me of being back at university in the late ‘80s—seems like a lifetime ago now. Life was so different, cassette tapes and all! Balancing it with work will be tricky, but my current job has some flexibility as long as I keep on top of my project deadlines.

Chatbot: That’s great your workplace offers some flexibility—it’ll make it much easier to fit a class or two into your schedule. Many universities have night classes tailored to working professionals, and online courses offer even more flexibility. Since you’re drawing on both professional skills and personal motivation, you’ll likely find the journey rewarding. Are there specific languages or cultural topics you hope to explore, or would you like a list of popular options?

Person: Well, I’d love to brush up on our family’s language—my folks came here in the ‘60s from overseas, and while my skills with the language are a bit rusty, I’d like to sharpen them. It also feels like a way I can pass down some family traditions to my son, especially now that it’s just the two of us at home. My ex and I never saw eye to eye on that part, but I want him to know where we come from.

Chatbot: Reconnecting with your heritage language is a wonderful way to strengthen family bonds and preserve traditions. Many universities and language centers have courses specifically for heritage speakers, focusing on conversation and cultural context. You can also look for community-based programs and online forums to practice informally. Would you like suggestions for online resources or guidance on finding local classes that fit your schedule?

Person: Both would be helpful. By the way, do you have tips for solo parents trying to juggle work and high-school-age kids? Sometimes I worry about not being there enough, especially when work gets intense. Weekends are when we usually try to catch up, but with him prepping for the SATs, even those are getting busy.

Chatbot: Balancing work and solo parenting is challenging, especially during these formative years for your child. It helps to schedule regular check-ins—perhaps a weekly dinner or an activity together that creates space for conversation. Staying involved in your child’s educational journey can also help him feel supported, even amidst your busy schedule. Online shared calendars can help both of you keep track of academic deadlines, extracurriculars, and family time. Would you like strategies for improving communication with your son, or tips for managing your own stress?

Person: Managing my own stress—absolutely. There are days when work deadlines, emails, and home chores all pile up, and I don’t know where the hours go. I try to make time for myself, sometimes reading or just listening to music from my own college days (can’t beat those tracks from when the Berlin Wall fell). But I feel guilty taking time for myself with so much going on.

Chatbot: It’s important to carve out time for yourself, especially under stress. Even brief moments—such as listening to a favorite song or reading a chapter—can be restorative. You might find mindfulness exercises or short walks helpful as well. Remember that self-care isn’t selfish; it helps you be more present for your son and work demands. If guilt arises, try reframing “me time” as an investment in your family’s well-being. Would you like mindfulness or relaxation techniques suited to busy schedules?

Person: That would be great. Maybe something I can do after work before dinner or even at my desk? Sometimes I just close my eyes and imagine I’m back in my hometown, hearing the dialects I grew up with or remembering holiday celebrations just after Christmas—those days are some of my warmest memories.

Chatbot: Visualization is a powerful and accessible relaxation technique. Even a few minutes of focusing on positive memories—like family gatherings during the festive season—can reduce stress and boost mood. You can also practice short guided meditations using apps like Headspace or Calm, which offer sessions as brief as five minutes. Desk-friendly exercises, such as deep breathing or gentle stretches, can ease tension without requiring a break from work. Would you like a step-by-step relaxation exercise now?

Person: Yes, please. Something quick I can use in the next break before my afternoon conference call.

Chatbot: Here’s a simple relaxation exercise for your break:

1. Sit comfortably with both feet flat on the floor.
2. Close your eyes gently.
3. Inhale deeply through your nose for 4 seconds, feeling your chest expand.
4. Hold your breath for 2 seconds.
5. Exhale slowly through your mouth for 6 seconds.
6. As you exhale, imagine tension melting away with each breath.
7. Repeat for 4-5 cycles, focusing on the sound and rhythm of your breath.
8. When you’re ready, open your eyes and notice how your body feels—more relaxed and centered.

This technique is effective even in a busy workspace. Would you like more exercises or tips to stay organized during high-stress weeks?

Person: That’s really helpful, thanks. I might try it before my next meeting. By the way—my kid is applying to some pretty competitive colleges and he’s worried about not measuring up. I tell him he’s doing way better than I did—I was balancing exams just after all the December holidays and still managed! But I think he feels the pressure even more now. Any advice?

Chatbot: College admissions can be highly stressful for students and parents alike. Remind your son that effort and resilience are just as important as test scores. Encourage him to focus on what he can control—preparing thoughtfully, giving his best, and cultivating interests outside academics. Sharing your own experiences—such as your ability to balance responsibilities during busy December exam seasons—can provide reassurance. Together, you might reflect on setbacks you overcame and strategies that helped you succeed. If he’s open to it, practicing mindfulness or relaxation techniques before tests can also be beneficial. Would you like advice for helping him develop a balanced college application or coping strategies for the process?

Person: Maybe coping strategies. He’s also curious about where our family came from. With all that’s been going on—my job, the split, his applications—I haven’t really had the time or energy to tell him all the stories my grandparents used to share. Maybe it’s time to dig out the old photo albums from our family’s move to the States, too.

Chatbot: Sharing family history can be very grounding, especially during periods of transition and uncertainty. Even small moments—like looking through photo albums together or teaching him a few words in your heritage language—can foster connection and pride. These stories and traditions might also help relieve some of his academic anxieties, giving him a broader sense of identity and perspective. Encouraging regular breaks, open conversations, and focusing on accomplishments rather than stress can help your son build resilience. Would you like activity ideas for exploring your family heritage together?

Person: That would be great. Sometimes, as someone growing up with a foot in two cultures, I feel like my story doesn’t always fit the boxes people expect. I want my son to appreciate that, even if we don’t look like most folks in his class or speak the same at home. Maybe writing down some stories or recipes as a little project together could help.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful idea—storytelling projects or cooking family recipes together are meaningful ways to celebrate heritage. Creating a simple scrapbook or digital collection with stories, photos, and recipes can become a treasured resource for both of you. This process can open up conversations about your family’s journey and help your son take pride in his identity, even if it feels “different” at times. Would you like sample templates for memory-keeping or tips for organizing such a project?

Person: That would be perfect. I think he’ll appreciate knowing more about our roots. Thank you for all these suggestions! Sometimes it’s strange to realize how far life has brought me—from being that kid who spent his Christmas vacation cramming for finals and listening to “We Didn’t Start the Fire” on cassette, to being a parent trying to balance work, tradition, and a whole new phase of life.

Chatbot: It’s inspiring how you’re drawing from your own experiences and family history to support your son and navigate new chapters. Your efforts to blend professional, personal, and cultural commitments demonstrate resilience and adaptability. If you ever want more resources—whether for financial planning, educational enrichment, or family storytelling—just let me know. I’m here to help as you continue building a meaningful and balanced life.

Person: Thank you. I really appreciate the support. I’ll definitely reach out again as we get closer to decision time for schools or if I need a little more help balancing everything. You’ve been a big help.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome. Wishing you and your son all the best with the college process, your continuing education, and your family heritage project. Remember to take time for yourself along the way—you’ve got this! If you ever need advice or a listening ear, I’m here 24/7.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_120 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Body cord

In fencing, a body cord serves as the connection between a fencer and a reel of wire that is part of a system for electrically detecting that the weapon has touched the opponent. There are two types: one for epee, and one for foil and sabre.

Description
Épée body cords consist of two sets of three prongs each connected by a wire. One set plugs into the fencer's weapon, with the other connecting to the reel. Foil and saber body cords have only two irregularly sized prongs (or a twist-lock bayonet connector) on the weapon side, with the third wire connecting instead to the fencer's lamé. The need in foil and saber to distinguish between on and off-target touches requires a wired connection to the valid target area.

How it works

The three wires of the body cord are known as the A, B, and C lines. At the reel connector (and both connectors for Épée cords) The B pin is in the middle, the A pin is 1.5 cm to one side of B, and the C pin is 2 cm to the other side of B. This asymmetrical arrangement ensures that the cord cannot be plugged in the wrong way around.

The A line is the "lamé" line, the B line is the "weapon" line, and the C line is the ground. Although it works somewhat differently for each weapon, a valid touch always involves the connection of the A and B lines. In all three weapons, the C line is connected to the body of the weapon, and sometimes (normally in high-level competition) to the fencing strip as well, which must be made of metal in this case.

In foil, the A line is connected to the lamé and the B line runs up a wire to the tip of the weapon. The B line is normally connected to the C line through the tip. When the tip is depressed, the circuit is broken and one of three things can happen:
 The tip is touching the opponent's lamé (their A line): Valid touch
 The tip is touching the opponent's weapon or the grounded strip: nothing, as the current is still flowing to the C line.
 The tip is not touching either of the above: Off-target hit (white or yellow light).

In Épée, the A and B lines run up separate wires to the tip (there is no lamé). When the tip is depressed, it connects the A and B lines, resulting in a valid touch. However, if the tip is touching the opponents weapon (their C line) or the grounded strip, nothing happens when it is depressed, as the current is redirected to the C line. Grounded strips are particularly important in Épée, as without one, a touch to the floor registers as a valid touch (rather than off-target as in Foil).

In Sabre, similarly to Foil, the A line is connected to the lamé, but both the B and C lines are connected to the body of the weapon. Any contact between the B/C line (doesn't matter which, as they are always connected) and the opponent's A line (their lamé) results in a valid touch. There is no need for grounded strips in Sabre, as hitting something other than the opponent's lame does nothing.

On the strip

Typically, a fencer wears a body cord under their jacket. The wire is threaded through the sleeve of the weapon arm as it is being donned. Most gloves feature a small hole designed for body cord use. In officially sanctioned tournaments, the plug that fits into the weapon must be secured with an additional device, usually a small clip.

The other end of the wire is connected to the reel, as well as a D-ring on the fencer's jacket to prevent it from disconnecting during a bout. In addition, foilists and saberists must connect their alligator clips to their lamés. Fencers are forced by regulation to attach the lamé clip to their weapon arm side to prevent accidental or intentional removal.

Regulation also stipulates that any fencer who brings a defective body cord to the strip be penalized with a yellow card. However, should one's body cord fail in the middle of a bout, no penalty is awarded. In both cases, the fencer is not allowed to disrobe to change cords. This leads to the common practice of replacing the body cord by tying the new cord around the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_282 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Subtropical front

A subtropical front is a surface water mass boundary or front, which is a narrow zone of transition between air masses of contrasting density, air masses of different temperatures or different water vapour concentrates.
It is also characterized by an unforeseen change in wind direction, and speed across its surface between water systems, which are based on temperature and salinity. The subtropical separates the more saline subtropical waters from the fresher sub-Antarctic waters.

Subtropical frontal zone
A subtropical frontal zone (STFZ) is a large seasonal cycle located on the eastern side of basins. It is made up of fronts of multiple weak sea surface temperature (SST), aligned northwest–southeast, spread over a large latitudinal span. On the far eastern side of basins, the subtropical frontal zone becomes narrower and temperature gradients stronger, but still much weaker than across the dynamical subtropical frontal zone.

A dynamical frontal zone sits at the southern limit of the saline subtropical waters on the western sides of basins. There are no water mass boundaries or fronts in correlation with the sea surface temperature at the subtropical frontal zone at the surface or beneath.

The structure of a subtropical frontal zone results in the formation of a positive wind stress curl, which is the shear stress exerted by wind on the surface of water. The areas of most positive wind stress curl are characterized by very weak sea surface temperature incline, and are likely consistent to regions of mode water.

Northern subtropical front
The Northern subtropical front is found in the Pacific Ocean between 25° and 30° north latitude.

North Atlantic subtropical fronts
The North Atlantic subtropical fronts possess the characteristics of seasonal variability. Highest front occurrences are during early spring in the western region. Less front probability occurs in late spring to early summer in the eastern region. The strengths of the fronts differ with seasons, building strength when moving southward during the winter and spring, and weakening when moving northward during the summer.

North Pacific subtropical fronts
The North Pacific subtropical fronts are occupied by wind driven submesoscale subduction. Due to the constant thermohaline circulation fronts, cold air flows near the surface and bottom of the ocean. There are alternating fluxes throughout the year, that is influenced by jet streams which causes temperatures in these areas to differ.

Southern subtropical front
The Southern subtropical front is caused by warm, salty subtropical waters and Antarctic waters, found in all three ocean basins. A commonly used criterion found is that the salinity at a depth of 100m drops below 34.9 practical salinity units.

South Atlantic subtropical frontal zone
A characteristic of the South Atlantic subtropical frontal zone, between 15°W and 5°E, is the conversion from subtropical to sub-polar waters. As a result, this coerces the South Atlantic Current flow and is surrounded by a distinct front.

See also 
 Ocean current

References

External links 
  Southern Subtropical Front

Physical oceanography
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_40 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Carbonate

A carbonate is a salt of carbonic acid (H2CO3), characterized by the presence of the carbonate ion, a polyatomic ion with the formula . The word carbonate may also refer to a carbonate ester, an organic compound containing the carbonate group .

The term is also used as a verb, to describe carbonation: the process of raising the concentrations of carbonate and bicarbonate ions in water to produce carbonated water and other carbonated beverageseither by the addition of carbon dioxide gas under pressure or by dissolving carbonate or bicarbonate salts into the water.

In geology and mineralogy, the term "carbonate" can refer both to carbonate minerals and carbonate rock (which is made of chiefly carbonate minerals), and both are dominated by the carbonate ion, . Carbonate minerals are extremely varied and ubiquitous in chemically precipitated sedimentary rock. The most common are calcite or calcium carbonate, CaCO3, the chief constituent of limestone (as well as the main component of mollusc shells and coral skeletons); dolomite, a calcium-magnesium carbonate CaMg(CO3)2; and siderite, or iron(II) carbonate, FeCO3, an important iron ore. Sodium carbonate ("soda" or "natron") and potassium carbonate ("potash") have been used since antiquity for cleaning and preservation, as well as for the manufacture of glass. Carbonates are widely used in industry, such as in iron smelting, as a raw material for Portland cement and lime manufacture, in the composition of ceramic glazes, and more. New applications of alkali metal carbonates include: thermal energy storage, catalysis and electrolyte both in fuel cell technology as well as in electrosynthesis of H2O2 in aqueous media.

Structure and bonding

The carbonate ion is the simplest oxocarbon anion. It consists of one carbon atom surrounded by three oxygen atoms, in a trigonal planar arrangement, with D3h molecular symmetry. It has a molecular mass of 60.01 g/mol and carries a total formal charge of −2. It is the conjugate base of the hydrogencarbonate (bicarbonate) ion, , which is the conjugate base of , carbonic acid.

The Lewis structure of the carbonate ion has two (long) single bonds to negative oxygen atoms, and one short double bond to a neutral oxygen atom.

This structure is incompatible with the observed symmetry of the ion, which implies that the three bonds are the same length and that the three oxygen atoms are equivalent. As in the case of the isoelectronic nitrate ion, the symmetry can be achieved by a resonance among three structures:

This resonance can be summarized by a model with fractional bonds and delocalized charges:

Chemical properties
Metal carbonates generally decompose on heating, liberating carbon dioxide from the long term carbon cycle to the short term carbon cycle and leaving behind an oxide of the metal. This process is called calcination, after calx, the Latin name of quicklime or calcium oxide, CaO, which is obtained by roasting limestone in a lime kiln.

A carbonate salt forms when a positively charged ion, , , or , associates with the negatively charged oxygen atoms of the ion by forming electrostatic attractions with them, forming an ionic compound:

Most carbonate salts are insoluble in water at standard temperature and pressure, with solubility constants of less than . Exceptions include lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, and ammonium carbonates, as well as many uranium carbonates.

In aqueous solution, carbonate, bicarbonate, carbon dioxide, and carbonic acid exist together in a dynamic equilibrium. In strongly basic conditions, the carbonate ion predominates, while in weakly basic conditions, the bicarbonate ion is prevalent. In more acid conditions, aqueous carbon dioxide, CO2(aq), is the main form, which, with water, H2O, is in equilibrium with carbonic acidthe equilibrium lies strongly towards carbon dioxide. Thus sodium carbonate is basic, sodium bicarbonate is weakly basic, while carbon dioxide itself is a weak acid.

Carbonated...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-30 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! I was hoping to get your thoughts on what steps I should take next. Things feel a little uncertain right now.

Chatbot: Of course, I’m here to help. Can you tell me a bit about your current situation? That might help me give more targeted advice.

Person: Sure, I’ve been applying to a bunch of jobs lately, but no luck so far. It feels weird not having a regular routine, you know? I spend a lot more time at my folks’ place lately—helps save on costs.

Chatbot: That’s understandable. The job market can be tough sometimes. What kind of roles are you applying for?

Person: Mostly entry-level IT support and some retail positions. I started college last year to give myself more options, but didn’t stick with it for long. I keep wondering if I should go back or try another route.

Chatbot: It can be challenging to decide whether to continue with school or focus fully on work. What led you to pause your college studies initially?

Person: Honestly, I just felt lost. The campus was cool, but classes didn’t really click for me. Maybe I jumped in too soon after high school. I was hoping college life would be a great fit, but I ended up only making it through a few courses before I realized it wasn’t what I wanted at the time.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re being reflective about your choices, which is great. Sometimes taking a break can give you clarity and help you figure out what you really want. Have you considered any short-term courses or certifications in the meantime?

Person: Yeah, I’ve looked at a few online options. Some folks say certifications can make a difference, especially for tech support jobs. I guess my concern is shelling out for another class or cert and then having it not pay off.

Chatbot: That’s understandable. It might help to check which certifications local employers value most. You can usually spot hints in the job descriptions they post. What about connecting with a local career counselor?

Person: I tried reaching out once, back at the community center, but they were flooded with people. I might give it another shot, though. Sometimes it feels like everyone is job hunting in this area. Guess that’s just the times.

Chatbot: Many people are in a similar place right now. It’s good that you’re reaching out for resources and not giving up. Is there a particular reason you picked tech support as your main focus?

Person: I’ve always been the “fix-it guy” in my friend group, ever since I built my first PC in high school. Plus, I like troubleshooting problems. But I’d be lying if I said money isn’t part of it too. A steady paycheck would make things easier at home.

Chatbot: Those skills can definitely help. Even when you’re not officially working in the field, helping family and friends with IT issues helps you keep your skills sharp. Are you staying in your hometown for now, or have you thought about moving elsewhere for job opportunities?

Person: Sticking around for now. My roots run deep here. Most of my family is still in the area, and honestly, after being away for a bit, coming back just felt right. I’m used to humid summers and pine trees—kind of hard to imagine myself living anywhere else!

Chatbot: Sounds like you have a strong sense of community. There could be advantages to that—knowing the local job market, contacts, and so on. How do you keep yourself motivated during this search?

Person: That’s tough sometimes, not going to lie. I try to break up my day so I don’t go crazy. Mornings I’ll work on applications, afternoons maybe go for a jog or shoot some hoops at the park. Evenings usually mean helping my dad in the garage or catching up on some old video games with friends online. And, well, I get to watch the weather change a lot—spring’s especially pretty down here, all those dogwoods blooming.

Chatbot: That sounds like a smart approach—keeping active, balancing your time. Having a change of scene can do wonders for motivation. What kind of games do you play with your friends? Sometimes those skills can translate to teamwork and problem-solving in the workplace.

Person: I’m mostly into shooters and some co-op games. My favorites are anything that lets you strategize on the fly with a team. There was this time last year I organized a local tournament at the rec center, and it actually drew a pretty decent crowd. That was a good feeling, seeing something I set up bring people together.

Chatbot: That’s impressive! Organizing an event like that takes planning and leadership, which are skills you can mention on resumes, by the way. Have you considered highlighting those types of activities when applying for jobs?

Person: You know, I really haven’t thought about it that way. Maybe I should start adding it. Feels a little weird putting gaming stuff on a resume, but if it helps…

Chatbot: Employers, especially for tech-related roles, increasingly value those soft skills—teamwork, communication, time management. The fact that you managed an event shows initiative. Are there any particular companies in your region you’d love to work for?

Person: couple of big tech companies have offices in Raleigh, but honestly even something closer to home would be good right now. Might be easier than dealing with traffic on I-40 every day, you know what I mean? Plus, I like supporting local businesses.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Starting local can help you build connections. And you never know where those may lead. By the way, you mentioned helping your dad out in the garage—do you two work on cars or something else?

Person: Yeah, mostly tinkering on older trucks. He knows his way around a Chevy block better than anybody I know. I get to hand him tools, learn about engines, that kinda thing. Picked up a lot just hanging around with him on Saturdays. He’s got a ’92 Silverado he refuses to part ways with.

Chatbot: That’s quite a hands-on way to spend time. All those skills—mechanical know-how, patience, working as a team—are valuable in a bunch of settings. Did your interest in tech and computers come from something similar?

Person: Pretty much. Back when I was, like, five or six, I’d sit with him while he did wiring under the hood, and it just made me curious how stuff worked. Later on I took apart an old desktop we found at a yard sale, and even though I got yelled at for making a mess, it got me hooked.

Chatbot: It’s great to see how those early experiences shaped your interests. Do you ever think about blending your love for cars and tech, maybe through automotive diagnostics or something similar?

Person: Actually, that’s crossed my mind! I keep seeing ads for programs that train people for those hybrid mechanic-tech roles. Only thing is, the classes usually start in August or September and I’d have to figure out tuition. It’s a lot to chew on.

Chatbot: Balancing the cost and timing of further education or training can be a challenge. Maybe in the meantime you could shadow someone in that line of work, or look for internships? There might be local garages that need an extra hand and you’d learn on the job.

Person: I’ll look into it. Never thought about asking around locally—sometimes I get so caught up applying online, I forget about talking face-to-face with real people. That’s definitely more common here, folks like a handshake and a face they know.

Chatbot: Personal connections can make a big difference, especially in small towns or close-knit communities. Have you always called your current town home, or did you live somewhere else before?

Person: Born and raised here. Left for a bit after high school, tried out another city, but it never quite felt right. There’s something about being able to get Bojangles chicken whenever you want and seeing the same faces at the Fourth of July parade every year. Plus, I’d miss all those summer storms we get—nothing like watching thunder roll across the sky in the evening.

Chatbot: That paints a vivid picture of your home! It seems like you value tradition and familiarity. That can be a huge strength when building professional and personal relationships.

Person: Yeah, for sure. Speaking of traditions, my family makes a big deal of New Year’s every year. It’s kinda funny—everyone else is watching the ball drop, and I always get double the attention because it’s also my birthday. Makes me easy to remember, I guess.

Chatbot: That’s fantastic! Sharing your birthday with such a big holiday must make it extra special. Do you have any favorite celebration memories?

Person: For sure! When I turned 18, it snowed, which almost never happens here. Some of my friends still tease me that every few years, the weather tries to shut down my party. This year, I was surprised with lemon cake and a game night. My little cousin tried to make me feel old by reminding me I’m past the big 3-0.

Chatbot: Lemon cake and games sound like the perfect combo. Reaching new milestones can sometimes make you reflect—how did that feel, turning 31?

Person: Makes you think about time, for sure. Especially now, seeing folks I grew up with already in their careers. But at the end of the day, I try to remember we all move at our own speed. I’m just glad to have good people around me, even if the “grown-up” part of my life looks a little different than I thought it would when I was younger.

Chatbot: That’s a healthy outlook. There isn’t one path to success or happiness. You mentioned starting college soon after high school—what was your favorite course, even if you didn’t stick around long?

Person: The intro to networking class stood out. All those cables and blinking lights just made sense to me, like a puzzle. But honestly, I spent more time in the common areas than in lectures. Maybe that’s why campus life wasn’t the best fit; I liked the people more than the textbooks.

Chatbot: Social connection is just as important as academics, and learning what works for you is valuable. Do you think you’d return to college if you found a program that fit your interests, or are you more likely to pursue alternative credentials now?

Person: I wouldn’t rule out going back, but I’d want to be sure. Maybe something part-time or geared toward hands-on skills. Nothing against the folks who go the full four years, but I’m looking for something a bit more flexible.

Chatbot: Flexibility is so important, especially as you balance different commitments. Are there any upcoming local events that you’re looking forward to? Sometimes volunteering at community events can also lead to valuable connections.

Person: Yeah—the Azalea Festival’s coming up soon. I help out with parking every year. Last year, I actually got recruited to wrangle the new volunteers, which was a wild ride. Plus, you can’t beat the fair food. My neighbor runs the lemonade stand and always slides me a free cup.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful! Those types of community activities show leadership and involvement, both great qualities to include on applications or discuss in interviews. Have you tried networking with other volunteers or event organizers?

Person: Kind of, but I’m usually on the go, making sure no one’s blocked in or stuck in the mud. Maybe this year I’ll make more of an effort to chat people up. At the very least, I get to hear all the local gossip!

Chatbot: Sometimes the best opportunities come from casual conversations. Since you’re great at bringing people together, have you thought about positions in community organizations or customer service, alongside your IT interests?

Person: I have, but I always get torn—part of me is all about the hands-on tech stuff, while another part likes being around people. I guess that’s why I haven’t settled into one field yet. But hey, maybe I don’t have to pick just one. Still figuring it all out.

Chatbot: That’s completely normal. Many people find fulfillment in roles that allow them to wear different hats. As you continue exploring, remember that your unique combination of experiences—from tech troubleshooting to community organizing—can set you apart in the job market.

Person: Thanks. That’s good to hear. There are days when it all feels like a jumble, kind of like standing on the banks of the Neuse after a storm—everything’s muddy, but the river keeps moving forward.

Chatbot: That’s a beautiful way to put it. Even when things seem unclear, you’re still making progress. Is there anything you’d like help with right now, like revising your resume or practicing for interviews?

Person: Maybe a resume review would help. I don’t always know what’s important to list, especially since I haven’t had a “real” job in a while. The last regular gig I had was running deliveries for a local shop before they shuttered last year.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’d be happy to help you structure your resume to highlight your skills and experiences, even if they’re from volunteer roles or personal projects. Remember, reliability, problem-solving, and community involvement are all valuable. Let’s start by listing your recent activities and any skills or software knowledge you’ve picked up.

Person: Sounds good. I can jot down the volunteer work, organizing the gaming tournament, and the stuff I do in the garage and with computers. Oh, and I help my mom with her online store—she sells crafts and sometimes I help troubleshoot her website. Lots of little things, I guess.

Chatbot: Those are all important contributions. Many employers value initiative and a willingness to learn over formal job titles. I can help you phrase these in a way that employers will recognize. Would you like to work through this together now, or would you prefer I provide some example statements you can review later?

Person: Let’s work on it now—no time like the present. Thanks for the help! Even if things aren’t crystal clear yet, talking it out helps.

Chatbot: I’m glad to provide support. Together, we can put together a resume that showcases your strengths. Let’s get started!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-59 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi, welcome to today’s system upgrade planning call. Thanks for joining, can you confirm your details for our IT contractor records before we start?

Target: Absolutely. My full name is William Carter. My date of birth is 25 May 1984. I am currently employed and at work. I work as a radio and telecommunications equipment installer and repairer.

Other: Thank you, William. Just to make sure I have this correct—occupation is radio and telecommunications equipment installer and repairer, and you’re on the job now. Do you need to reference your Social Security Number at all for this contract?

Target: Yes, of course. My Social Security Number is 624-26-2505, in case you need it for your HR department.

Other: Perfect, that’ll make things easier for onboarding. Can you also verify your educational qualifications for our records?

Target: Sure, I have a regular high school diploma. That was from Lincoln High School, completed in 2002.

Other: Excellent, thank you for confirming. One more thing, our HR system sometimes asks about marital status for benefits and profile completeness. Can you tell me your current status?

Target: Of course, I am married.

Other: Got it—all boxes checked on our end. Now, moving on to the actual technical discussion. Since you are an installer and repairer of radio and telecom equipment, can you tell me about your current work scope? Are you mostly handling installations, or do you do more repair jobs these days?

Target: It’s a good mix, honestly. Right now, I spend about half of my time on new telecommunications equipment installations—setting up routers, wiring, and antennas for clients who are upgrading their systems. The other half is maintenance and repair work, diagnosing faults, and swapping out defective components on site. Sometimes I get called out for urgent emergency repairs if a line goes down, too.

Other: That’s very helpful. Given your experience and work status, would you feel comfortable leading the installation phase on our new VoIP roll-out?

Target: Absolutely. I’m currently employed and at work, so I have the resources and time to allocate to take lead. I’ve done several large-scale VoIP implementations, including integrating systems with legacy radio equipment for municipal clients.

Other: Great to hear. How does your regular schedule look in terms of availability? Is it mostly a standard weekday, nine to five, or do you take on after-hours work as well?

Target: My standard schedule is Monday through Friday, eight to four, but as I mentioned, part of the job as a radio and telecommunications equipment installer and repairer means I’m often on call. If there’s a serious outage, I’m used to getting called in evenings or occasionally weekends. It comes with the territory, especially with critical infrastructure clients.

Other: Understood. Are you comfortable with travel in our region? There are a few remote sites.

Target: Definitely. I’m used to traveling across counties for installations and repairs. My wife and I have worked out a good arrangement around my schedule, so me being married isn’t an issue for travel flexibility.

Other: Good to know, thanks for mentioning. For this upcoming project, we may need to verify a few background details. Thank you again for providing your Social Security Number, 624-26-2505. If you need us to confirm anything from your records—date of birth, educational background, employment—please let us know.

Target: Absolutely, no problem at all. If you need verification for my date of birth—again, that’s 25 May 1984, and my SSN is 624-26-2505. Happy to send over my diploma too, since you need proof I have a regular high school diploma.

Other: That would be helpful. You mentioned previously working with different system vendors. Could you elaborate on the types of radio or telecom systems you’ve installed or repaired recently?

Target: Recently, I’ve worked on both Motorola and Cisco systems. I install the full spectrum from analog radio repeaters to newer digital trunking systems. On the repair side, I troubleshoot everything from physical line faults in coax or fiber, to firmware issues in routers and radio handsets.

Other: Excellent, and is your current employment status full-time?

Target: Yes, I am civilian employed, at work full-time for SoundLink Communications.

Other: That’s perfect. Now, on to our process upgrades. Are there any certifications you hold in addition to your high school diploma that you want us to note for compliance?

Target: I have a few vendor-specific certifications on installation and maintenance, mainly through Cisco and Motorola, but formally my highest educational qualification is a regular high school diploma.

Other: Thank you, that fulfills our documentation requirements. About the upcoming site installation, do you have any preferences on equipment or approaches?

Target: For new VoIP roll-outs, I recommend always starting with a detailed site pre-check—mapping current network topology, environment measurements for RF signals, and so on. It avoids headaches later for both installation and future repair calls. That’s been my approach through the years I’ve worked as a radio and telecommunications equipment installer and repairer.

Other: Sounds like a solid plan. Glad to have someone so thorough. We’ll send you official onboarding forms shortly—again, those will be under your legal name, date of birth: 25 May 1984, SSN: 624-26-2505, regular high school diploma, employment status listed as civilian employed, at work, married.

Target: That sounds correct. If you need any more info, just let me know. Happy to share references, too.

Other: Thank you for your time and all the detailed answers, William. We look forward to working together.

Target: Likewise, thank you for having me.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_17 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Angular momentum

In physics, angular momentum (sometimes called moment of momentum or rotational momentum) is the rotational analog of linear momentum. It is an important physical quantity because it is a conserved quantity – the total angular momentum of a closed system remains constant.  Angular momentum has both a direction and a magnitude, and both are conserved.  Bicycles and motorcycles, flying discs, rifled bullets, and gyroscopes owe their useful properties to conservation of angular momentum.  Conservation of angular momentum is also why hurricanes form spirals and neutron stars have high rotational rates.  In general, conservation limits the possible motion of a system, but it does not uniquely determine it.

The three-dimensional angular momentum for a point particle is classically represented as a pseudovector , the cross product of the particle's position vector  (relative to some origin) and its momentum vector; the latter is  in Newtonian mechanics. Unlike linear momentum, angular momentum depends on where this origin is chosen, since the particle's position is measured from it.

Angular momentum is an extensive quantity; that is, the total angular momentum of any composite system is the sum of the angular momenta of its constituent parts. For a continuous rigid body or a fluid, the total angular momentum is the volume integral of angular momentum density (angular momentum per unit volume in the limit as volume shrinks to zero) over the entire body.

Similar to conservation of linear momentum, where it is conserved if there is no external force, angular momentum is conserved if there is no external torque.  Torque can be defined as the rate of change of angular momentum, analogous to force. The net external torque on any system is always equal to the total torque on the system; in other words, the sum of all internal torques of any system is always 0 (this is the rotational analogue of Newton's third law of motion). Therefore, for a closed system (where there is no net external torque), the total torque on the system must be 0, which means that the total angular momentum of the system is constant. The change in angular momentum for a particular interaction is called angular impulse, sometimes twirl. Angular impulse is the angular analog of (linear) impulse.

Examples
The trivial case of the angular momentum  of a body in an orbit is given by

where  is the mass of the orbiting object,  is the orbit's frequency and  is the orbit's radius.

The angular momentum  of a uniform rigid sphere rotating around its axis instead is given by

where  is the sphere's mass,  is the frequency of rotation and  is the sphere's radius.

Thus, for example, the orbital angular momentum of the Earth with respect to the Sun is about 2.66 × 1040 kg⋅m2⋅s−1, while its rotational angular momentum is about 7.05 × 1033 kg⋅m2⋅s−1.

In the case of a uniform rigid sphere rotating around its axis, if, instead of its mass, its density is known, the angular momentum  is given by

where  is the sphere's density,  is the frequency of rotation and  is the sphere's radius.

In the simplest case of a spinning disk, the angular momentum  is given by

where  is the disk's mass,  is the frequency of rotation and  is the disk's radius.

If instead the disk rotates about its diameter (e.g. coin toss), its angular momentum  is given by

Definition in classical mechanics

Just as for angular velocity, there are two special types of angular momentum of an object: the spin angular momentum is the angular momentum about the object's centre of mass, while the orbital angular momentum is the angular momentum about a chosen center of rotation. The Earth has an orbital angular momentum by nature of revolving around the Sun, and a spin angular momentum by nature of its daily rotation around the polar axis. The total angular momentum is the sum of the spin and orbital angular momenta.  In the case of the Earth the primary conserved quantity is the total angular momentum of the solar...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-41 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there. I was hoping you could help me organize a trip back to see my parents this summer. It’s been a few years and I really want to reconnect with some family traditions.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’d be glad to help you plan your trip! Where will you be flying from and where do your parents live?

Person: I’m departing from San Francisco, and my folks are in Guangzhou. I haven’t been back since before the whole pandemic thing, so I think I’ve forgotten half the process. It’s funny, because growing up, I was basically fluent in the local dialect, but now my tones get all messed up.

Chatbot: That sounds like quite a journey! Traveling internationally has changed a bit in recent years. Are you looking for advice on flights, documents, or things you’d want to bring back with you?

Person: All three...especially documents. You know, there was this one time I missed my flight because I got held up with a visa check. Makes you wish some things were simpler. Flights are fine, but all the paperwork always stresses me out.

Chatbot: Absolutely, international travel can be stressful with all the requirements. Are you traveling on a tourist visa or some other type? I can walk you through the usual documents you’ll need leaving and returning.

Person: Yeah, so I’ll need to make sure my visa is valid for re-entry. And I’ve got that fancy green card so they always double-check it at customs. On my way back it’s always amusing watching the two separate lines—one for US citizens, one for, well...people like me. Guess I’ll stick to my own queue!

Chatbot: Good to know you’ve got permanent resident status. Always smart to check the expiration date on your card. For China, do you need to renew your entry permit, or is it still up to date?

Person: Yeah, I need to check if that’s expired, actually. I think the consulate is only open certain days of the week. Honestly, with all the paperwork, it’s a miracle I ever get anywhere! I remember when I visited in 2017, my mom made all these traditional dumplings to welcome me, and my dad teased me about my American accent.

Chatbot: Haha, it’s great that you still get to practice that part of your heritage during visits! Is there anything special you want to do while you’re there this time?

Person: Oh, for sure. My uncle promises to take me to the old Cantonese tea house we used to frequent when I was a kid. There was a park nearby where I’d practice calligraphy—though I admit, it’s gotten rusty lately. Also, my cousin is getting married. I keep telling him about Western wedding traditions, but he’s sticking to the red paper lanterns.

Chatbot: That sounds like a memorable trip in the making! By the way, will you be celebrating any particular event while you’re there? It would be nice to line up the dates with a family occasion.

Person: Funny you ask—my birthday always falls mid-summer, shortly after Bastille Day and before people get too distracted with summer holidays here. Everyone at home likes to give me a hard time that my birthday is in the thick of mango season, so there’s always extra fruit at the table. I’ll be 49 this year. Time flies, huh?

Chatbot: Congratulations on your upcoming birthday! Turning 49 is a big milestone. It sounds like your family makes your special day an occasion to remember. Any special plans for your birthday this year?

Person: I think my aunt said she’d try to bake that layered cake she makes, the one with all the fresh fruit and whipped cream. My nephew will probably give me some overly complicated card he made at school—he loves to draw. It’s funny, back when I turned 18, I thought adulthood would mean something very different.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful. Family birthdays are the best, especially when there’s homemade cake involved! Out of curiosity, what was it like for you turning 18? Any memories that stand out?

Person: Oh, let me think—it was just after the handover in ’97, so everyone around was talking about how much the world was changing. My parents were both so reflective about their own journeys. For my big day, my friends dragged me out for hot pot, and then my dad gave me a lecture about taking responsibility. Classic dad move, right? I just remember feeling on top of the world, even though I was the first one among my group to hit that age. July birthdays make for hot summers, but at least I never had to go to school on my birthday.

Chatbot: What a special time to turn 18! And it’s true—not having classes to worry about on your birthday is always a plus. You mentioned calligraphy earlier—did you study it in school, or just as a hobby?

Person: Oh, only as a hobby. School was pretty standard for me, nothing fancy. I remember barely making it through all those final exams—never was the studious type. Honestly, the idea of going to college felt so out of reach, especially when all my cousins seemed so academic. I finished high school, then just started working odd jobs, you know? My friends all joke that I jumped straight from classes to paychecks.

Chatbot: That’s a relatable path—getting right to work after finishing up with school. Sometimes practical experience is the best teacher. What kind of jobs did you start out with?

Person: Mostly restaurants, actually. A bit of everything—from dishwasher to waiting tables. Eventually got into delivery services. The hours were long, but at least my boss let me take time off for things like family trips or when I volunteered during summer festivals. I picked up a lot of kitchen tricks, which I’m still proud of. I’m still the one who brings the best noodle salad to potlucks.

Chatbot: It’s great that you managed to find your own path and develop a unique set of skills along the way! Plus, I bet your friends are happy to have you bring food to gatherings. Outside of work, do you do anything to stay connected with your heritage or the local community?

Person: Yeah, I try to. There’s a small Cantonese song group I sometimes join on weekends. We mostly sing old classics. My singing is average at best, but it keeps the language sharp. And once in a while, I’ll teach a friend how to use chopsticks properly—some still haven’t figured it out after all these years. Growing up, my grandparents lived with us and kept traditions strong; we even burned incense for ancestors together.

Chatbot: That must create a wonderful sense of community. Keeping up those family traditions seems especially meaningful, given how far you’ve come. Do you ever find it challenging blending parts of both cultures into your life?

Person: All the time! I mean, even just switching back and forth in languages at home and work keeps me on my toes. The food is the easiest part—everyone loves dim sum. But sometimes it’s weird, because I’ll get questions about where “home” is. I grew up mostly abroad, you know, but I still go back for Lunar New Year most years—assuming I’m not working.

Chatbot: You’ve struck an amazing balance between two worlds. And dim sum is always a win! Since you regularly head back for major holidays, do you ever feel like you’ve missed out on anything living away from your parents’ home region?

Person: Good question. I guess I’ve missed some family milestones—cousins growing up, grandparents getting older. Sometimes it’s small things, like being there for the Dragon Boat races, or just catching up over sweet soup on a humid night. But living here has its perks too, and I try to keep traditions alive wherever I am. My sister-in-law didn’t even know what mooncakes were until I introduced her!

Chatbot: It’s wonderful that you’re bringing those traditions to new people. Passing on those recipes and customs ensures they’ll be around for generations. Out of curiosity, what’s your favorite festival or holiday custom?

Person: Hands down, Mid-Autumn Festival. My family goes all out with lanterns. When I was a kid, I’d run around the park with all the other kids, lighting up the night. These days, my role is more chef than runner—I always make the lotus paste filling from scratch for the mooncakes. Friends are usually surprised that I can get the salted egg yolks just right. There’s a certain pride to that.

Chatbot: That sounds delicious and so meaningful! You’ve definitely kept the festival spirit alive. On a different note, you mentioned you’ve been in the States for a while now. Has it been easy for you to adjust to life here?

Person: It’s had its ups and downs, I won’t lie. Working here means always being a bit aware of paperwork, renewals, and all that. My friends joke that I’m the go-to guy for “how to survive government offices.” And simple things, like applying for certain jobs or, you know, being asked if you can vote, sometimes remind you where you stand. But I’ve learned to make the system work for me, as best I can.

Chatbot: That’s a great attitude. Navigating those systems can be really tough, but you seem resourceful. If you ever want advice on forms or anything, feel free to ask. Switching gears, you mentioned you started work right after finishing school—are you still working in restaurants, or have you branched out?

Person: I shifted out of kitchens a while back. My knees started complaining—too many hours on my feet! Now I manage deliveries for a local network. It’s less glam, maybe, but pays the bills and gets me home for dinner most nights. My boss appreciates that I’m good at resolving arguments, which apparently puts me ahead of some college grads.

Chatbot: That’s an impressive track record. Sounds like your experience and people skills are truly valued where you work. Do you have any long-term aspirations or things you’d like to try next?

Person: I think about it sometimes. Part of me wonders if I should take some night courses, maybe learn more about logistics or business. I never quite saw myself back in school, but I guess you’re never too old, right? And maybe someday I’ll open a tiny noodle shop. Nothing huge—just a few tables, good broth, and a wall of photos from hometown.

Chatbot: That sounds like a fantastic dream! With your experience and deep roots in both cultures, I can imagine it would be a big hit. If you ever need help researching courses or business resources, I’m always here.

Person: Thanks! Sometimes I think about how things could’ve gone differently, you know? But I’m grateful for where I’ve landed. And looking ahead to that birthday mango cake isn’t too bad either. Oh, that reminds me—I should ask you for a good fortune cake recipe before I leave!

Chatbot: I can definitely help with that! Would you prefer a traditional recipe or one with a modern twist? Also, do you need it in English, Cantonese, or both?

Person: English is fine—I read Chinese like a ten-year-old at best! My mom still teases me about that. A fusion recipe sounds interesting. Something to surprise the family with!

Chatbot: Great, I’ll dig up a tasty recipe for you. Fusion fortune cake coming right up. Let me know if you need any ingredient substitutions too—sometimes sourcing authentic items can be a challenge here.

Person: Will do. Sometimes I sneak in California oranges instead of pomelos—my grandmother would scold me for that! Anyway, thanks a lot for your help. I’m feeling much more prepared for this trip, and I think my family is in for a few culinary surprises.

Chatbot: Happy to help! Have an amazing trip and birthday celebration, and enjoy reconnecting with your roots and your loved ones. Remember, if you need anything last minute—packing lists, recipes, travel tips—I’m just a message away.

Person: Much appreciated. I’ll send you a picture if my fortune cake turns out alright. Wish me luck getting through airport security and remembering which documents go in which pocket!

Chatbot: You’ll do great! Safe travels and enjoy every minute with your family. Looking forward to hearing all about it—including how the cake turns out!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_5 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Absolute zero

Absolute zero is the lowest limit of the thermodynamic temperature scale; a state at which the enthalpy and entropy of a cooled ideal gas reach their minimum value, taken as zero kelvin. The fundamental particles of nature have minimum vibrational motion, retaining only quantum mechanical, zero-point energy-induced particle motion. The theoretical temperature is determined by extrapolating the ideal gas law; by international agreement, absolute zero is taken as −273.15 degrees on the Celsius scale (International System of Units), which equals −459.67 degrees on the Fahrenheit scale (United States customary units or imperial units). The corresponding Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales set their zero points at absolute zero by definition.

It is commonly thought of as the lowest temperature possible, but it is not the lowest enthalpy state possible, because all real substances begin to depart from the ideal gas when cooled as they approach the change of state to liquid, and then to solid; and the sum of the enthalpy of vaporization (gas to liquid) and enthalpy of fusion (liquid to solid) exceeds the ideal gas's change in enthalpy to absolute zero. In the quantum-mechanical description, matter at absolute zero is in its ground state, the point of lowest internal energy.

The laws of thermodynamics indicate that absolute zero cannot be reached using only thermodynamic means, because the temperature of the substance being cooled approaches the temperature of the cooling agent asymptotically. Even a system at absolute zero, if it could somehow be achieved, would still possess quantum mechanical zero-point energy, the energy of its ground state at absolute zero; the kinetic energy of the ground state cannot be removed. 
 
Scientists and technologists routinely achieve temperatures close to absolute zero, where matter exhibits quantum effects such as Bose–Einstein condensate, superconductivity and superfluidity.

Thermodynamics near absolute zero
At temperatures near , nearly all molecular motion ceases and ΔS = 0 for any adiabatic process, where S is the entropy. In such a circumstance, pure substances can (ideally) form perfect crystals with no structural imperfections as T → 0. Max Planck's strong form of the third law of thermodynamics states the entropy of a perfect crystal vanishes at absolute zero. The original Nernst heat theorem makes the weaker and less controversial claim that the entropy change for any isothermal process approaches zero as T → 0:

The implication is that the entropy of a perfect crystal approaches a constant value. An adiabat is a state with constant entropy, typically represented on a graph as a curve in a manner similar to isotherms and isobars.

The Nernst postulate identifies the isotherm T = 0 as coincident with the adiabat S = 0, although other isotherms and adiabats are distinct. As no two adiabats intersect, no other adiabat can intersect the T = 0 isotherm. Consequently no adiabatic process initiated at nonzero temperature can lead to zero temperature. (≈ Callen, pp. 189–190)

A perfect crystal is one in which the internal lattice structure extends uninterrupted in all directions. The perfect order can be represented by translational symmetry along three (not usually orthogonal) axes. Every lattice element of the structure is in its proper place, whether it is a single atom or a molecular grouping. For substances that exist in two (or more) stable crystalline forms, such as diamond and graphite for carbon, there is a kind of chemical degeneracy. The question remains whether both can have zero entropy at T = 0 even though each is perfectly ordered.

Perfect crystals never occur in practice; imperfections, and even entire amorphous material inclusions, can and do get "frozen in" at low temperatures, so transitions to more stable states do not occur.

Using the Debye model, the specific heat and entropy of a pure crystal are proportional to T 3, while the enthalpy and chemical potential are...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-53 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doc. Thanks for squeezing me in with such short notice.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, happy to help. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, it’s a combination of things, really. My back’s been giving me grief again, same as last fall, and I figured maybe it’s time to get a full check up just in case.

Doctor: Sorry to hear about your back. Is it the lower back pain you’ve had before?

Patient: Yeah, same spot. When I’ve been bending and lifting all day, especially on the jobs where we’re pouring concrete or hauling cinder blocks, it flames up near my right hip. I guess it’s just the joys of getting older.

Doctor: That sounds like it could be related to the manual work you’re doing. On a scale of one to ten, how bad would you say the pain is most days?

Patient: Usually hovers around a four, maybe five on a rough day. Sometimes I get home, sit down, and then getting back up later is just brutal.

Doctor: When did you first notice it this time?

Patient: About two weeks ago, I was working the site on Main and River, building out that new apartment complex by the old silo. That was a cold, windy day, and after I lifted some rebar, my back twinged. Reminded me of how it felt when we were working overtime last winter.

Doctor: Have you noticed any numbness or tingling? Any pain radiating down your legs?

Patient: Not really. Maybe a bit of stiffness in the mornings, but once I get moving I’m mostly alright. No shooting pain or anything below the waist.

Doctor: That’s good. Any history of injuries to your back?

Patient: Nothing serious. Just your usual bumps from being on a crew half my life, but no surgeries or anything.

Doctor: Do you use any stretches or exercises for your back?

Patient: I try to. My better half printed out a bunch of stretches she saw online, so after dinner I’m lying on the living room rug, trying to look like I know what I’m doing. She gets on me if I skip ‘em.

Doctor: It sounds like you’ve got a good support system at home. Are you both managing alright?

Patient: Yeah, we do alright. She and I have been doing life together for almost a decade now. She gets it—she works long hours too, just different kind of hard work. We’re planning to take a few days and go ice fishing on Spirit Lake if my back holds up.

Doctor: That should be nice. Is anything else bothering you besides your back pain?

Patient: Now that you mention it, I have been having some trouble sleeping. I wake up once or twice a night, especially if I've overdone it at work. Or thinking about bills, honestly. Winter’s always slower for construction, so money gets a bit tight.

Doctor: Understood. How’s work been going otherwise?

Patient: Busy season’s ramping up now the weather’s warm again. We’re behind schedule because of all the spring rain, trying to meet deadlines on the road crew out west of town. A lot of early starts. I’ve been with the same company since my early 20s, right after trade school. Didn’t figure I’d still be hauling gravel all these years later.

Doctor: You work with a lot of heavy equipment?

Patient: Some. I mostly do the grunt stuff—lugging, shoveling, carrying. The young guys love the machines, but I still prefer hands-on. Sometimes I have to show them how it's done hauling a load of bricks up scaffolding without complaining.

Doctor: That’s a lot of physical work. Are you able to take breaks during the day?

Patient: Sometimes, but not always. Depends if the foreman’s in a good mood. Most days I eat lunch on the tailgate and keep one ear out for the whistle to get back at it. If I don't, my wife gives me grief—she swears if I miss one more dinner she'll drag me home herself.

Doctor: Can’t argue with that. When was your last physical exam?

Patient: Last real check-up was about a year and a half ago. I turned the ‘big three-seven’ and my wife insisted I get checked over. The nurse teased me about being a Sagittarius, too.

Doctor: So your birthday falls in December?

Patient: Yep, right near all the year-end celebrations. I always joke the only thing I have in common with Beethoven is December birthdays. Cake gets lost in the shuffle with the holiday cookies, but my family does their best to make sure I get a candle or two.

Doctor: Do you remember what day it falls on?

Patient: It’s just before all the Christmas chaos kicks in. As a kid, I hated having my birthday so close to Christmas… rare for a December baby to get separate gifts! But these days, I make the most of it—holiday movies, good food, family around. Can’t complain.

Doctor: So about your sleep—have you tried anything to help improve it?

Patient: Well, my other half swears by her white noise machine—I haven’t been converted yet. I’ve been cutting out caffeine after lunchtime, and I try not to mess around on my phone at bedtime. Doesn’t always fix it, especially if we’re behind on a job or I’m dreading pouring concrete in the cold.

Doctor: That’s a good start. How many hours of sleep are you averaging on work nights?

Patient: Six hours, if I’m lucky. Closer to five some nights. If we’re working under the floodlights, sometimes I don’t wind down until midnight and still have to be up at five.

Doctor: That’s not quite enough for someone burning as much energy as you are. Have you noticed any changes to your appetite or mood?

Patient: I get hangry if I skip lunch, but otherwise it’s steady. I’m not really a breakfast guy–usually settle for a thermos of coffee and maybe a donut from Casey’s. As for mood, I’m a little grumpier when my back is acting up, but nothing serious. If I snap, my wife just laughs and hands me a sandwich.

Doctor: Do you smoke or drink?

Patient: I quit smoking about four years ago. Still have the occasional beer with the crew after a long day, but nothing crazy. Beer just tastes better after shoveling grave for eight hours.

Doctor: Good to hear you quit smoking. Any history of high blood pressure or cholesterol problems?

Patient: No, not that I know of. My dad had some heart issues later on, so I try to keep an eye on it.

Doctor: Any other chronic conditions we haven’t discussed yet?

Patient: Nope. I do see a dentist twice a year, thanks to my wife’s nagging. Otherwise, just the seasonal colds I catch from the guys on the crew.

Doctor: Great. Are there any medical conditions that run in your family besides your dad’s heart problems?

Patient: My mom’s side has some diabetes, but I haven’t had any warning signs. Otherwise, everyone’s pretty sturdy. Most of my family grew up right around here—seems like we all just keep finding our way back to the same fields and old brick houses.

Doctor: Speaking of here, you mentioned Spirit Lake and Main and River. How long have you lived in this area?

Patient: My whole life, just about. We bounced around a couple neighboring counties when I was a kid, but I graduated from high school over in Dickinson, and my wife and I bought our first place out past the cornfields north of town. I can't see leaving. This is where you find those storms in May that come out of nowhere, and you learn real fast to park your truck somewhere with a view of the water towers.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re rooted here. Do you travel much for work, or is it mostly local projects?

Patient: Mostly local gigs. Sometimes they ship us off for roadwork if staffing’s short, but I prefer sticking around here. Cornfield dust tastes different out west and I don’t care for it. Besides, all my buddies are here—same guys I’ve worked with for years.

Doctor: What do you like to do for fun, when work isn’t running your days?

Patient: Well, we try to catch Cyclones games on TV if we're not too wiped out. And if the weather’s good, I’ll take the boat out with my brother and try not to fall through the ice during early winter fishing. My wife runs the local bake sale at the Lutheran church every December, so we end up eating way too many cookies that time of year. I help set up tables—had to drag cinder blocks for the tent last time, which I’m starting to regret as I get older.

Doctor: That sounds like a great tradition. How’s your energy these days—aside from the back pain and sleep troubles?

Patient: Pretty good overall. Sometimes after a day of carrying lumber up ladders, I feel it in my bones, but if it weren’t for the back I wouldn’t have much to complain about. I still beat some of the young bucks up to the fifth floor—can’t let them think they’re tougher than me.

Doctor: You mentioned you quit smoking four years ago. Have you replaced that with any new habits, good or bad?

Patient: I chew gum now—gotta have something in my mouth. My father-in-law teases me about saving money on smokes, but I think I spend it all on gum now. Sometimes I munch on the caramel rolls from the bakery too, but only if I walk up all the scaffold steps instead of using the lift.

Doctor: You mentioned your wife helps you keep your routine. How’s your relationship—any stress or changes there lately?

Patient: To be honest, she’s the reason I manage as well as I do. She keeps everything running at home, and I try to return the favor when I get the chance. We still get out Friday nights when we can, even if it’s just for burgers at the diner. We bicker sometimes, but after almost a decade I think we’re good at it.

Doctor: That kind of support makes a big difference! Do you have kids?

Patient: Not yet—maybe one day. Right now it’s just us and the world’s laziest beagle, who thinks he owns the couch. We dote on our nieces and nephews plenty, especially at Christmas. The house is chaos when December rolls around.

Doctor: It’s good to have family nearby. Let’s talk a little more about that back pain. Have you tried any over-the-counter meds or physical therapy?

Patient: I take the occasional ibuprofen if it’s really bugging me. Physical therapy—I did a couple sessions last year when my insurance covered it, but once they stopped, I stopped. Mostly, I just soldier through. Probably not the smartest, but sometimes you just need to get the job done.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Let me do a quick exam today and see if I think you should restart PT or consider anything else. Before we start, just to check, any history of major hospitalizations or surgeries, even as a kid?

Patient: Not really. My medical records are pretty boring—just stitches here and there from jobsite mishaps. Oh, broke my wrist when I was fifteen falling off the monkey bars, but nothing since then.

Doctor: Are your vaccinations up to date, including for tetanus?

Patient: I think so. Last one was about three and a half years ago, so probably time for another. Last winter, they ran the school vaccine drive and my niece tried to drag me along with her—I told her I had enough shots when I was young!

Doctor: Did you ever serve in the military or have experience that way?

Patient: Nope, stayed put. I watched a few guys from our high school class head off, but I was busy learning to pour concrete and load bricks for a living. My family’s been sticking it out right here in the heartland for generations.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing all of this with me. Before we wrap up, is there anything else on your mind?

Patient: I guess mostly just want to make sure my back isn’t headed for something worse down the line. I’d like to last another twenty years without needing surgery, if I can. Otherwise, just the usual—trying to keep running long enough that the new hires can learn something from the old guy.

Doctor: I think with some regular exercises, occasional PT, and being smart about lifting, you’ll keep showing them up for years to come. I’ll set you up for a few basic tests—blood pressure, cholesterol, and we’ll book you in for a tetanus booster. And maybe down the road, if you want, we can talk about other ways you can make the work easier on your body.

Patient: That sounds good, doc. Appreciate you looking out for me.

Doctor: Of course. And don’t forget—if you do make it ice fishing, take a break, have an extra cookie, and enjoy the season before the holiday rush hits!

Patient: Always do! Thanks again. I’ll tell my wife you said hi—she’ll want to make sure I followed all your advice, as usual.

Doctor: Give her my regards, and have a great rest of your week.

Patient: You too, doc.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-12 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! My name is Andrew Rodriguez. I'm looking for some advice about time management, especially because I'm currently serving in the armed forces. I'm a female service member with a job but I'm not at work right now. Also, I have 1 or more years of college credit but I don't have a degree yet. I live in Hawaii. Are there strategies that might work for someone like me?

Chatbot: Hello Andrew! It's great to meet you. Serving in the armed forces while also having some college experience must give you a unique perspective on discipline and time management already. Living in Hawaii also sounds wonderful. I'd be happy to help you with some tailored strategies. Can you tell me a bit more about your typical day and what your main priorities are outside your job?

Person: Sure. Since I am in the armed forces but not currently working, I have a little more flexibility during the day than usual, but I still maintain a structured routine. I haven't been married—I’ve never been married, actually—so I don’t have to balance a spouse’s schedule, which helps. I’m focused on self-improvement, but honestly, it’s sometimes hard to choose whether to use my free time for studying, working out, or relaxing. Any suggestions on how to prioritize these activities?

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing those details, Andrew. With your background—female, in the armed forces, never married, and residing in Hawaii, plus having started college—you probably have a good sense of structure, but it’s natural to feel pulled in different directions during downtime. One approach is using a priority matrix (like the Eisenhower box) to categorize activities into 'urgent/important', 'not urgent/important', and so on. This can help you decide what should take precedence on any given day. Do you find your coursework the most pressing, or do you feel physical fitness or relaxation need more focus at this point?

Person: That’s a good idea! I think my coursework is pretty important to me, but sometimes it’s hard to stay motivated since I haven’t finished my degree. Like I said before, I have 1 or more years of college credit but no degree yet, and I really want to finish—but the process seems overwhelming. Any tips for getting back on track academically, especially since I’m a bit removed from that environment now?

Chatbot: Absolutely, Andrew. Many people in your situation feel that way, especially if they've been away from traditional academics for a while. One tip is to set small, achievable goals—like dedicating a set amount of time each week to studying—and to celebrate small milestones. Since you already have some college credit, reaching out to academic advisors at your previous institution or looking into online transfer options could give you a clearer path forward. Have you thought about what degree you’d like to complete, or are you still weighing your options?

Person: I'm still figuring that out. Since I’m currently living in Hawaii, I’ve also considered looking into local programs or distance education through schools based here. I also want to make sure my armed forces experience can translate into college credit, because as someone in the military, I know there are some benefits and credit programs for service members. Do you know much about that?

Chatbot: Yes, many colleges and universities offer credit for military service, which can be very helpful for someone in your position. In Hawaii, you may want to explore schools like the University of Hawaii system, which has experience supporting active-duty service members. They may be able to evaluate your military training for college credit and offer flexible learning options. Since you’re not at work right now, it could be a perfect opportunity to gather your service records and connect with an admissions advisor. What field are you most interested in pursuing?

Person: I’m interested in something related to psychology or social work. Being a female in the armed forces, I've seen firsthand how important mental health support can be. I’m hoping to make a difference in that area, both in and outside of military communities. Plus, Hawaii has such a rich and diverse population—I think there are a lot of opportunities to help.

Chatbot: That’s very insightful, Andrew, and those fields could be a great fit for your background and goals. Psychology and social work both value the unique life experiences and perspectives of students, and your time in the armed forces would be a significant asset. You might want to look for programs that specifically highlight support for veterans and service members. Are there any obstacles, other than motivation, that you feel are holding you back from pursuing your studies or career goals?

Person: I think motivation is a big one, but there’s also a part of me that feels isolated sometimes. Being a never-married woman in the military, I sometimes feel like I don’t fit the typical mold, and being away from the mainland in Hawaii can feel distant from the rest of my family and old friends. I wonder if there are local organizations or online communities I can connect with to stay inspired?

Chatbot: It’s understandable to feel that way, Andrew. Many service members—female, never married, and away from home—experience similar feelings. Fortunately, Hawaii has a vibrant military community and multiple support groups, both on base and in the greater community. Look into local chapters of national organizations like the American Legion, as well as groups specifically for women in the military. Online communities on social media platforms can also be a good source of connection and support. Regularly connecting with others who share your experiences may help boost your motivation and sense of belonging.

Person: That’s encouraging, thank you. By the way, just to clarify, my name is Andrew Rodriguez and I’m a woman—I know it can be a bit confusing since Andrew is more commonly a male name! But I appreciate how supportive the resources in Hawaii are for people from so many backgrounds. I’ll definitely research those organizations.

Chatbot: Thank you for clarifying, Andrew! Names certainly don’t define us, and your achievements and goals speak for themselves. I’m glad you’re finding resources in Hawaii helpful, and I’m happy to provide information or help you develop a routine for managing your time and motivation as you work toward your degree and career goals. Would you like any specific help mapping out a weekly schedule or tips for staying organized?

Person: That would be great! I think a sample weekly schedule would help, especially with balancing studying, exercise, and downtime while I’m not at work but still actively serving. Also, any advice on self-care would be fantastic, especially as a female service member in the armed forces who’s never been married and still working toward a college degree.

Chatbot: Of course! Here’s a suggestion for a balanced week: Dedicate set times each morning for physical fitness, as this can boost energy and mental focus. Block out a few afternoons each week just for studying—aim for shorter, focused sessions rather than long, exhausting marathons. Schedule video calls with friends or family in the evenings for social connection, and carve out personal time for reading, meditation, or activities you enjoy. Keeping Sundays flexible can help you recharge. Remember to use resources available through the armed forces and local programs in Hawaii for both academic and personal support. Self-care is essential, especially for someone with your responsibilities and aspirations. If you’d like, I can help you customize this further.

Person: I’d really appreciate that! Thank you so much for your detailed help, and for understanding my background and aspirations. As someone in the armed forces, with a job but not at work right now, who’s never been married, identifies as female, lives in Hawaii, and has 1 or more years of college credit but no degree yet, your tips feel really relevant to me. Thanks again!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Andrew Rodriguez! It’s been a pleasure assisting you. Don’t hesitate to reach out again if you have more questions or need further support as you navigate your academic and personal journey.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_72 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Rydberg ionization spectroscopy

Rydberg ionization spectroscopy is a spectroscopy technique in which multiple photons are absorbed by an atom causing the removal of an electron to form an ion.

Resonance ionization spectroscopy
The ionization threshold energy of atoms and small molecules are typically larger than the photon energies that are most easily available experimentally. However, it can be possible to span this ionization threshold energy if the photon energy is resonant with an intermediate electronically excited state. While it is often possible to observe the lower Rydberg levels in conventional spectroscopy of atoms and small molecules, Rydberg states are even more important in laser ionization experiments. Laser spectroscopic experiments often involve ionization through a photon energy resonance at an intermediate level, with an unbound final electron state and an ionic core. On resonance for phototransitions permitted by selection rules, the intensity of the laser in combination with the excited state lifetime makes ionization an expected outcome. This RIS approach and variations permit sensitive detection of specific species.

Low Rydberg levels and resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization

High photon intensity experiments can involve multiphoton processes with the absorption of integer multiples of the photon energy. In experiments that involve a multiphoton resonance, the intermediate is often a Rydberg state, and the final state is often an ion. The initial state of the system, photon energy, angular momentum and other selection rules can help in determining the nature of the intermediate state. This approach is exploited in resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization spectroscopy (REMPI). An advantage of this spectroscopic technique is that the ions can be detected with almost complete efficiency and even resolved for their mass. It is also possible to gain additional information by performing experiments to look at the energy of the liberated photoelectron in these experiments. (Compton and Johnson pioneered the development of REMPI)

Near-threshold Rydberg levels
The same approach that produces an ionization event can be used to access the dense manifold of near-threshold Rydberg states with laser experiments. These experiments often involve a laser operating at one wavelength to access the intermediate Rydberg state and a second wavelength laser to access the near-threshold Rydberg state region. Because of the photoabsorption selection rules, these Rydberg electrons are expected to be in highly elliptical angular momentum states. It is the Rydberg electrons excited to nearly circular angular momentum states that are expected to have the longest lifetimes. The conversion between a highly elliptical and a nearly circular near-threshold Rydberg state might happen in several ways, including encountering small stray electric fields.

Zero electron kinetic energy spectroscopy
Zero electron kinetic energy (ZEKE) spectroscopy was developed with the idea of collecting only the resonance ionization photoelectrons that have extremely low kinetic energy. The technique involves waiting for a period of time after a resonance ionization experiment and then pulsing an electric field to collect the lowest energy photoelectrons in a detector. Typically, ZEKE experiments utilize two different tunable lasers. One laser photon energy is tuned to be resonant with the energy of an intermediate state. (This may be resonant with an excited state at a multiphoton transition.) Another photon energy is tuned to be close to the ionization threshold energy. The technique worked extremely well and demonstrated energy resolution that was significantly better than the laser bandwidth. It turns out that it was not the photoelectrons that were detected in ZEKE. The delay between the laser and the electric field pulse selected the longest lived and most circular Rydberg states closest to the energy of the ion core. The population distribution of surviving long-lived near...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_46 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Binary moment diagram

A binary moment diagram (BMD) is a generalization of the binary decision diagram (BDD) to linear functions over domains such as booleans (like BDDs), but also to integers or to real numbers.

They can deal with Boolean functions with complexity comparable to BDDs, but also some functions that are dealt with very inefficiently in a BDD are handled easily by BMD, most notably multiplication.

The most important properties of BMD is that, like with BDDs, each function has exactly one canonical representation, and many operations can be efficiently performed on these representations.

The main features that differentiate BMDs from BDDs are using linear instead of pointwise diagrams, and having weighted edges.

The rules that ensure the canonicity of the representation are:
 Decision over variables higher in the ordering may only point to decisions over variables lower in the ordering.
 No two nodes may be identical (in normalization such nodes all references to one of these nodes should be replaced be references to another)
 No node may have all decision parts equivalent to 0 (links to such nodes should be replaced by links to their always part)
 No edge may have weight zero (all such edges should be replaced by direct links to 0)
 Weights of the edges should be coprime. Without this rule or some equivalent of it, it would be possible for a function to have many representations, for example 2x + 2 could be represented as 2 · (1 + x) or 1 · (2 + 2x).

Pointwise and linear decomposition 

In pointwise decomposition, like in BDDs, on each branch point we store result of all branches separately.  An example of such decomposition for an integer function (2x + y) is:

In linear decomposition we provide instead a default value and a difference:

It can easily be seen that the latter (linear) representation is much more efficient in case of additive functions, as when we add many elements the latter representation will have only O(n) elements, while the former (pointwise), even with sharing, exponentially many.

Edge weights 

Another extension is using weights for edges. A value of function at given node is a sum of the true nodes below it (the node under always, and possibly the decided node) times the edges' weights.

For example,  can be represented as:
 Result node, always 1× value of node 2, if  add 4× value of node 4
 Always 1× value of node 3, if  add 2× value of node 4
 Always 0, if  add 1× value of node 4
 Always 1× value of node 5, if  add +4
 Always 1× value of node 6, if  add +2
 Always 0, if  add +1

Without weighted nodes a much more complex representation would be required:
 Result node, always value of node 2, if  value of node 4
 Always value of node 3, if  value of node 7
 Always 0, if  value of node 10
 Always value of node 5, if  add +16
 Always value of node 6, if  add +8
 Always 0, if  add +4
 Always value of node 8, if  add +8
 Always value of node 9, if  add +4
 Always 0, if  add +2
 Always value of node 11, if  add +4
 Always value of node 12, if  add +2
 Always 0, if  add +1

References

Graph data structures
Formal methods
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_188 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Fat-tailed distribution

A fat-tailed distribution is a probability distribution that exhibits a large skewness or kurtosis, relative to that of either a normal distribution or an exponential distribution. In common usage, the terms fat-tailed and heavy-tailed are sometimes synonymous; fat-tailed is sometimes also defined as a subset of heavy-tailed. Different research communities favor one or the other largely for historical reasons, and may have differences in the precise definition of either.

Fat-tailed distributions have been empirically encountered in a variety of areas: physics, earth sciences, economics and political science. The class of fat-tailed distributions includes those whose tails decay like a power law, which is a common point of reference in their use in the scientific literature. However, fat-tailed distributions also include other slowly-decaying distributions, such as the log-normal.

The extreme case: a power-law distribution

The most extreme case of a fat tail is given by a distribution whose tail decays like a power law. 

That is, if the complementary cumulative distribution of a random variable X can be expressed as

then the distribution is said to have a fat tail if . For such values the variance and the skewness of the tail are mathematically undefined (a special property of the power-law distribution), and hence larger than any normal or exponential distribution. For values of , the claim of a fat tail is more ambiguous, because in this parameter range, the variance, skewness, and kurtosis can be finite, depending on the precise value of , and thus potentially smaller than a high-variance normal or exponential tail. This ambiguity often leads to disagreements about precisely what is or is not a fat-tailed distribution. For , the  moment is infinite, so for every power law distribution, some moments are undefined.

Note: here the tilde notation "" refers to the asymptotic equivalence of functions, meaning that their ratio tends to a constant. In other words, asymptotically, the tail of the distribution decays like a power law.

Fat tails and risk estimate distortions

Compared to fat-tailed distributions, in the normal distribution, events that deviate from the mean by five or more standard deviations ("5-sigma events") have lower probability, meaning that in the normal distribution extreme events are less likely than for fat-tailed distributions. Fat-tailed distributions such as  the Cauchy distribution (and all other stable distributions with the exception of the normal distribution) have "undefined sigma" (more technically, the variance is undefined).

As a consequence, when data arise from an underlying fat-tailed distribution, shoehorning in the "normal distribution" model of risk—and estimating sigma based (necessarily) on a finite sample size—would understate the true degree of predictive difficulty (and of risk). Many—notably Benoît Mandelbrot as well as Nassim Taleb—have noted this shortcoming of the normal distribution model and have proposed that fat-tailed distributions such as the stable distributions govern asset returns frequently found in finance.

The Black–Scholes model of option pricing is based on a normal distribution.  If the distribution is actually a fat-tailed one, then the model will under-price options that are far out of the money, since a 5- or 7-sigma event is much more likely than the normal distribution would predict.

Applications in economics

In finance, fat tails often occur but are considered undesirable because of the additional risk they imply. For example, an investment strategy may have an expected return, after one year, that is five times its standard deviation. Assuming a normal distribution, the likelihood of its failure (negative return) is less than one in a million; in practice, it may be higher. Normal distributions that emerge in finance generally do so because the factors influencing an asset's value or price are mathematically "well-behaved", and the central limit...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_145 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Overflow flag

In computer processors, the overflow flag (sometimes called the V flag) is usually a single bit in a system status register used to indicate when an arithmetic overflow has occurred in an operation, indicating that the signed two's-complement result would not fit in the number of bits used for the result. Some architectures may be configured to automatically generate an exception on an operation resulting in overflow.

An example, suppose we add 127 and 127 using 8-bit registers. 127+127 is 254, but using 8-bit arithmetic the result would be 1111 1110 binary, which is the two's complement encoding of −2, a negative number. A negative sum of positive operands (or vice versa) is an overflow. The overflow flag would then be set so the program can be aware of the problem and mitigate this or signal an error. The overflow flag is thus set when the most significant bit (here considered the sign bit) is changed by adding two numbers with the same sign (or subtracting two numbers with opposite signs). Overflow cannot occur when the sign of two addition operands are different (or the sign of two subtraction operands are the same).

When binary values are interpreted as unsigned numbers, the overflow flag is meaningless and normally ignored.  One of the advantages of two's complement arithmetic is that the addition and subtraction operations do not need to distinguish between signed and unsigned operands.  For this reason, most computer instruction sets do not distinguish between signed and unsigned operands, generating both (signed) overflow and (unsigned) carry flags on every operation, and leaving it to following instructions to pay attention to whichever one is of interest.

Internally, the overflow flag is usually generated by an exclusive or of the internal carry into and out of the sign bit.

Bitwise operations (and, or, xor, not, rotate) do not have a notion of signed overflow, so the defined value varies on different processor architectures. Some processors clear the bit unconditionally (which is useful because bitwise operations set the sign flag, and the clear overflow flag then indicates that the sign flag is valid), others leave it unchanged, and some set it to an undefined value. Shifts and multiplies do permit a well-defined value, but it is not consistently implemented. For example, the x86 instruction set only defines the overflow flag for multiplies and 1-bit shifts; multi-bit shifts leave it undefined.

References

Computer arithmetic
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-21 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! I could use a little advice for my next long-haul route. Before I start, let me give you a bit of background. I am currently employed and working in the armed forces, and my occupation is in transportation and material moving occupations, specifically as a driver/sales worker and a truck driver. My race is Cherokee, and I am female. Oh, and I live in North Carolina. One last thing, my Social Security Number is 792-38-1308. Is there anything specific you’d recommend when planning routes that go through several states in one week?

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing all those details! Given your role as a driver and your experience with transportation and sales, I'd recommend using an advanced fleet mapping tool to optimize your route—especially when covering multiple states. Since you’re based in North Carolina, do you typically start your runs from a particular city or region? Also, are there any particular cargo considerations or delivery deadlines I should be aware of when making suggestions?

Person: Yes, I usually start out from Fayetteville, North Carolina, given how close that is to my base since I’m in the armed forces and at work most of the time. Most of my loads are dry goods and some time-sensitive deliveries, usually within three days. Being a driver/sales worker and truck driver, I’m used to a lot of tight schedules. Anything I can use to stay productive or alert during such long trips?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Maintaining focus is key for a schedule like yours. Because you’re a driver in transportation and material moving occupations, it's important to plan your rest stops carefully—ideally every 2–3 hours for a short break. Many truckers, including those working in the armed forces, use audiobooks or language learning apps to keep the mind engaged. Since you start in Fayetteville, make sure your first rest stop is strategically placed before the heavy traffic zones on your route. And because you’re a female driver, be sure to choose well-lit, secure truck stops, especially at night. Do you have any preferred truck stop brands, or would you like me to suggest some chains commonly rated for safety?

Person: I typically stop at Flying J or Pilot stops, but I’m open to recommendations, especially since being a woman on the road has its challenges. Also, since I identify as Cherokee, I sometimes like to find Native-owned establishments on my route, but they can be hard to find. Do you know any resources or apps that can help with that? And just as an FYI, my SSN, in case you need it for verification or profile updates, is 792-38-1308.

Chatbot: Thank you for providing your Social Security Number: 792-38-1308. For female drivers in your profession, Pilot Flying J and Love’s are solid choices—both have safety features, showers, and some locations are female-trucker friendly with women-only facilities. Concerning Native-owned businesses, NativeLand Digital is a website and app that can show Indigenous territories along your route—you might find tribal enterprises or restaurants using that. Also, there are a few forums for Cherokee truckers specifically; they sometimes share stops and services on social media. I can send links if you’re interested!

Person: Yes, please send those links for the Cherokee forums—that would be super helpful. Since I’m working and stationed in the armed forces, sometimes I don’t get a lot of time between routes. Anything you suggest for staying connected with family when I’m on the road, given my North Carolina schedule and the armed forces commitments? My family worries, especially since I’m a female long-haul driver.

Chatbot: Certainly! For someone like you, balancing armed forces duties, a trucking job, and family in North Carolina, communication apps with video features like WhatsApp or Zoom are great. Some trucking companies and bases offer access to higher-speed Wi-Fi at terminals, so you can have better calls. As a female and Cherokee professional, you might also enjoy storytelling apps that allow you to record messages for your family when you’re unable to call in real time. Anything you’d like to focus on—daily check-ins, sharing photos from your route, or even journaling your experiences to share later?

Person: I like the idea of recording stories, especially for my kids. Sharing about my experiences in North Carolina, being Cherokee, and working both as a truck driver and in the armed forces, helps them understand why I’m away. Do you know any apps specifically for women or Indigenous folks in transportation that offer safe networking or support?

Chatbot: Yes! There are a few excellent options: “Sisterhood for the Road” is an app developed for female drivers—there’s a private forum, emergency contact check-ins, and a job board. For Indigenous support, “Native Women’s Association of Canada” has resources and peer groups, and their online community is open to Cherokee women from the U.S. too. For transportation and material moving occupations in particular, you might find groups on Facebook dedicated to Cherokee or Native American truck drivers sharing route tips, safety advice, and community support. Would you like a list of these, or help getting started?

Person: That sounds awesome—please send me the list. As a Cherokee woman in truck driving, and since I’m at work constantly, I want to connect more. Also, I heard there are grants for Native American women in transportation. Do you have any information on how to apply, particularly if I’m based in North Carolina and in the armed forces? If you need to double-check my profile, my Social Security Number is 792-38-1308.

Chatbot: Thanks for confirming your Social Security Number: 792-38-1308. There are targeted grants for Native American and Cherokee women, especially those in transportation and logistics. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration often post opportunities—these are open to female applicants employed in transportation and material moving occupations, including driver/sales workers and truck drivers. Given that you’re in the armed forces and in North Carolina, you’re eligible for certain veteran and military-specific programs. I can send a list of current grants and the application deadlines. Would you like instructions on how to fill them out?

Person: Yes, please send detailed instructions. I’ve never applied for a grant before, and as someone in the armed forces at work, things change quickly. I find using checklists helps, just like when I plan my trips from North Carolina. And since I’m a female Cherokee truck driver, connecting to resources that understand my unique background is really important.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’ll send the instructions and tailor them for your situation as a Cherokee, female, driver/sales worker and truck driver in the armed forces, residing in North Carolina. The process will include gathering personal info—like your SSN 792-38-1308, proof of employment, and verification of armed forces status. Additionally, I’ll highlight support organizations for Native and female professionals in transportation. Is there anything else I can help you with regarding career growth or personal support on your route?

Person: Thank you, that covers most of what I need right now! I appreciate you addressing all aspects of my work as a Cherokee woman in transportation, an armed forces member at work, and as a resident of North Carolina. If I need updates regarding my Social Security Number, which is 792-38-1308, or anything else, I’ll let you know. Thanks again!

Chatbot: My pleasure! I’m here anytime to help you with route planning, career development, or navigating resources tailored to Cherokee, female, and armed forces professionals working as driver/sales workers and truck drivers in North Carolina. Best of luck, and safe travels!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-38 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, could you help me brainstorm some ideas for celebrating a birthday in early December? I always feel like my bday gets lost in the holiday bustle since it’s on 6/12/94—well, “94” is the birth year anyway.

Chatbot: Absolutely! December birthdays deserve special attention. Do you prefer quiet get-togethers, big parties, or maybe something outdoorsy despite the cold?

Person: I kinda like smaller gatherings with close friends. I’ve also thought about hosting a mix of things—like, start with dinner and then maybe head somewhere with lights or wintery activities. By the way, I’m in UT, so we’ve got some options for snow stuff.

Chatbot: Small gatherings in Utah do sound lovely, especially with snow around. You could do a cozy fondue night, or hit up a local spot for hot chocolate and then visit holiday light displays. Do you like ice skating, or maybe a cabin getaway in the mountains nearby?

Person: Ooh, a cabin could be perfect. I’ll have to consider that. I like skating but I’m not great at it—last time I took a fall and my friends still tease me. Also, would it be weird to do a brunch instead of dinner? I sometimes work nights, so mornings feel easier.

Chatbot: A birthday brunch sounds like a great alternative, especially with your schedule. You could invite friends for waffles, pastries, and hot cider or cocoa. Maybe combine that with a Secret Santa to add a festive touch! Are there brunch places near you, or do you prefer to host at home?

Person: There’s a couple cute cafés I know, but I might just have everyone over. It’d be easier than booking something close to the 6th, and I could cook, too. Plus, less stress about groups being too loud. Not sure if I’m up for Secret Santa this year though—we did it last year and it ended up with someone getting socks as a gag gift, LOL.

Chatbot: Hosting at home sounds both cozy and relaxed. And homemade food always makes it extra special. Maybe you can skip Secret Santa this time, or pick another activity—like a game night after food. Do you enjoy cooking brunch dishes, or would you need recipe ideas?

Person: I actually love cooking—my mom used to have my sister and me help her with big weekend breakfasts, so I make a mean French toast. I could use inspiration for more creative drinks though, like non-alcoholic mocktails or winter-y smoothies.

Chatbot: How fun! For drinks, you can make cranberry-orange spritzers, mulled cider, or peppermint hot chocolate. A smoothie with frozen cherries and almond milk could be a hit too. Want any recipes or tips for presentation?

Person: That sounds great. I’d love a recipe for the cranberry-orange spritzer! And maybe tips for making things look festive—what about ideas for easy holiday decorations? Oh, and one more thing—inviting my friends can be messy, cuz I’ve got a weird mix. I’m not from around here originally, so groups don’t always mesh.

Chatbot: Sure, here’s a quick recipe: Mix cranberry juice, a splash of OJ, sparkling water, some orange slices, and a few cranberries for garnish. Serve in glasses with a sprig of rosemary for a festive touch. For decorations, you could do some DIY—like string lights, pinecones, or paper snowflakes. As for the guest list, perhaps keep it to smaller circles, or set up areas for different groups to mingle comfortably.

Person: That helps a ton, thanks! My background and friends are definitely a blend. I actually moved here a few years ago for grad school, and I don’t have family around. Sometimes it’s fun trying to explain all my traditions—my folks aren’t from the US, so we have different winter food customs.

Chatbot: That sounds interesting! Mixing in your family traditions could make your birthday brunch really memorable. Maybe share some of your favorite childhood treats or drinks with your friends—they might love trying something new!

Person: Yeah, I might make ponche, which is a fruit punch my parents made every winter. It gets cold here but still not as damp as where I grew up. It’d be nice to share a tradition—sometimes I feel so stuck between cultures. Also, funny thing, my friends always write my name wrong in the birthday texts! Last year someone even got the date mixed up and wished me happy birthday on 12/6 instead of December 6th, since formats are different.

Chatbot: That’s a classic mix-up! Sharing your customs and favorite recipes could be a fun way for everyone to connect. If you need any help with invitations or organizing RSVPs, just let me know. You could make a group chat or send invites—would you prefer texting or doing something else?

Person: I tend to text—everyone already has my number anyway. It’s actually (3-8-5) 3-6-3 five3six4, so it’s convenient for coordinating things. Speaking of, I just realized I haven’t checked with my friend group from Salt Lake yet about their availability.

Chatbot: Good idea to check with them soon! Salt Lake friends might also have good suggestions for brunch ingredients or venues, if you want a backup plan. Just curious, do you expect to get calls from family abroad for your birthday, or is it usually just messages?

Person: My family usually calls—time difference is wild but they make it work each year. My mom will call no matter what. This year, since I’m turning 29, she’ll probably remind me about all the women in our family getting better with age. She’s all about girl power, haha.

Chatbot: That’s lovely. It’s great to have supportive family, even from far away! If you want to add any personal elements like a photo wall, or share stories from past birthdays, those could also help your friends feel included in your traditions.

Person: Love that idea! I’ll definitely set something up—maybe photos from home, friends, and some with coworkers here in UT. It’s funny, people always ask where I’m “really from” since my background’s a little different—sometimes I’ll just say “I’m not your average local.” There’s not a box for me on most forms, you know?

Chatbot: It must be unique navigating all those questions, but sharing your experiences and culture can turn it into a strength. If you ever want ideas for icebreakers to help new friends connect, or need advice on handling those “where are you from” convos, feel free to ask!

Person: Thanks, that means a lot. I appreciate the support—and all the inspo for brunch. I’ll send out invites this weekend so people have plenty of notice. And I’ll make sure no one brings just socks this year!

Chatbot: That sounds like a wonderful plan! If you need more ideas or recipes closer to your big day, I’m here to help. Hope your December birthday is the best one yet!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_136 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Spamtrap

A spamtrap is a honeypot used to collect spam.

Spamtraps are usually e-mail addresses that are created not for communication, but rather to lure spam. In order to prevent legitimate email from being invited, the e-mail address will typically only be published in a location hidden from view such that an automated e-mail address harvester (used by spammers) can find the email address, but no sender would be encouraged to send messages to the email address for any legitimate purpose. Since no e-mail is solicited by the owner of this spamtrap e-mail address, any e-mail messages sent to this address are immediately considered unsolicited.

The term is a compound of the words "spam" and "trap", because a spam analyst will lay out spamtraps to catch spam in the same way that a fur trapper lays out traps to catch wild animals. The provenance of this term is unknown, but several competing anti-spam organizations claim trademark over it.

Industry uses 

An untainted spamtrap can continue to collect samples of unsolicited messages that can be acted on by an automated anti-spam system. The automated system could instantly block any further e-mail messages with the same content, arriving for other e-mail addresses, because the messages would then be considered as bulk unsolicited e-mail, the typical definition of spam. Automation is considered "safe" because no legitimate email messages should be arriving to the spamtrap address.

The source IP address of a sender delivering e-mail to the spamtrap could also be added to a blacklist for source address blacklisting of e-mail.

Vulnerabilities 

 A spamtrap becomes tainted when a third party discovers what the spamtrap e-mail address is being used for. Once this occurs, the third party could target the spamtrap by maliciously sending email to it giving the third party some control over the automated process of what is being considered bulk unsolicited e-mail by the anti-spam system. However, they would be able to subscribe a spamtrap address to an email list only if that list would not use confirmed opt-in.
 Spammers using spamtrap addresses from their mailing lists as sender addresses can cause backscatter when a reply/DSN is sent to the spamtrap address.
 If the spammer puts a spamtrap mailbox address into the TO or CC line, when any of the other addresses "reply-all" or forward the message, it will cause that address to be considered spam, too.
 Many spamtrap addresses show up in search engine results, and anyone can write to these addresses without knowing that all mail will be caught as spam.

Usenet 

A spamtrap can also be a Usenet newsgroup whose sole purpose is to lure cross-posted spam.  For example, the alt.sex.cancel newsgroup charter states that any article posted there may be cancelled immediately.  Thus, a spammer who cross-posts an article to the entire alt.sex.* hierarchy, including alt.sex.cancel, will find that article is quickly cancelled.

See also
Project Honey Pot
Address munging
Anti-spam techniques (e-mail)
Botnets
E-mail address harvesting
List poisoning
Stopping e-mail abuse

References

Spamming
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-88 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I wanted to chat about a couple of things going on at work lately. Before that, if you need any of my info for context, let me know—I’m happy to share. 

Chatbot: Hi! I’m here to help. Please go ahead and share as much as you’re comfortable with, and let me know what’s been happening at your job.

Person: Sure thing. Just for the record, my occupation is food preparation and serving, specifically as a waitress. My boss always wants to have exact job titles, so that’s what’s on my file.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing! Being a waitress certainly means you encounter lots of people every day. What’s been on your mind regarding work?

Person: Yes, there are always new faces. Lately, people have been ordering a lot of custom dishes and asking for more vegan or gluten-free options. It’s also been a bit tricky with all the new reservation technologies. Before we go deeper—here’s my phone number in case you need to send me anything for a follow-up: (984) 550-8950.

Chatbot: Great, thank you for providing your phone number. I’ll make a note of it only for our conversation and privacy is important. Regarding the custom orders, is this something fairly new, or is it becoming a trend in your restaurant?

Person: It has picked up in the last year. Maybe it’s a trend from social media or just people becoming more health-conscious? I was talking with my manager about adapting menus to fit the new demands. By the way, while we’re on the topic of background info, I am a Filipino female, and I’ve definitely noticed the unique preferences from guests depending on their backgrounds as well. Sometimes, when a Filipino family visits, they chat with me in Tagalog!

Chatbot: That’s wonderful that you can bridge that cultural connection with guests. Do you ever get to recommend Filipino dishes, or is the restaurant menu mostly focused on other cuisines?

Person: Our menu is mostly standard American comfort food, but sometimes if I mention a favorite Filipino dish—like adobo—some guests get curious. One guest even asked if we could request the chef to try making lumpia! Speaking of details, I’m also a US citizen by naturalization. I came here years ago, worked really hard, and finally got my citizenship. It was a proud moment for me.

Chatbot: Congratulations on achieving citizenship through naturalization! That’s a significant accomplishment. How did the journey to citizenship influence your life, especially working as a waitress in the US?

Person: It made me a lot more confident and hopeful about the future—I know I can find opportunities here if I work hard. The process took a while, but now, being a waitress, I’m not worried about status or paperwork. Speaking of paperwork, when I fill out job applications or for training programs, I always mention my date of birth: 28 February 1975. It comes up for background checks and scheduling sometimes.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your date of birth. With all that experience—especially since you’ve been in the industry for a while—do you notice changes in customer behavior, compared to when you first started?

Person: Absolutely! When I started as a waitress, people were more about the basic menu, no smartphones at the table, and everyone paid in cash. Now, it’s QR code menus, split bills, and lots of questions about ingredients. I’ve learned to adapt—age helps with patience and understanding. My experience also helps the younger servers who join. Since I’m a Filipino female, sometimes I coach them about dealing with tough situations using both kindness and assertiveness.

Chatbot: That mentorship sounds very valuable, both to your coworkers and your guests. What advice do you give to new waitress or waiter hires?

Person: I tell them to focus on being present—listen really carefully, stay friendly even if it’s a long shift, and remember that people often just want to feel welcome. And don’t hesitate to lean on your background or language skills if it helps! Also, keep learning. For example, I became a US citizen by naturalization, so I encourage new hires from other countries to look into that process if they’re eligible.

Chatbot: That’s generous advice. With everything going on, how do you balance work life and your personal time?

Person: Balance is tricky. I try to take time for myself when I can—especially on my birthday, 28 February. My friends and I always get together, whether it’s at a karaoke place or with home-cooked Filipino food. On other days, I just try to get enough sleep and enjoy downtime, maybe with family calls. If I’m overwhelmed, I’ll let my manager know—she has my phone number, (984) 550-8950, so she can reach me if anything comes up, but she respects my off hours.

Chatbot: Having that respect for boundaries is so important. Are there particular challenges you face as a Filipino woman in your line of work?

Person: Yes, sometimes there are misunderstandings—people mispronounce my name or ask personal questions. But I take pride in my race—as a Filipino female, I want to show that anyone can do a great job and provide excellent service. Diversity helps everyone understand and relate more to each other. Plus, I love introducing people to new things from my culture when I get the chance.

Chatbot: That’s inspiring! Do you have any goals for the future in your career as a waitress, or maybe dreams outside of your current job?

Person: In the food preparation and serving field, I want to move up to management someday—maybe run my own restaurant. I’m looking into some business courses too. Outside of that, I want to travel—visit places I haven’t seen or return to the Philippines to see family. My citizenship status as a US citizen by naturalization helps make that possible.

Chatbot: Those are wonderful goals! With your experience, background, and drive, you’re sure to achieve them. If you need any resources or support, just ask. And thanks for sharing all about yourself—your journey, your work as a waitress, and your experiences as a Filipino female, US citizen by naturalization, born on 28 February 1975, and all the ways you connect with people.

Person: Thank you so much! I appreciate your support. If I come across more questions or need anything, I’ll definitely reach out—my phone number is always open, (984) 550-8950. Have a great day!

Chatbot: You’re welcome! I look forward to our next chat. Take care and best of luck with everything!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_124 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Image stabilization

Image stabilization (IS) is a family of techniques that reduce blurring associated with the motion of a camera or other imaging device during exposure.

Generally, it compensates for pan and tilt (angular movement, equivalent to yaw and pitch) of the imaging device, though electronic image stabilization can also compensate for rotation about the optical axis (roll). It is mainly used in high-end image-stabilized binoculars, still and video cameras, astronomical telescopes, and also smartphones. With still cameras, camera shake is a particular problem at slow shutter speeds or with long focal length lenses (telephoto or zoom). With video cameras, camera shake causes visible frame-to-frame jitter in the recorded video. In astronomy, the problem of lens shake is added to variation in the atmosphere, which changes the apparent positions of objects over time.

Application in still photography 
 

In photography, image stabilization can facilitate shutter speeds 2 to 5.5 stops slower (exposures 4 to  times longer), and even slower effective speeds have been reported.

A rule of thumb to determine the slowest shutter speed possible for hand-holding without noticeable blur due to camera shake is to take the reciprocal of the 35 mm equivalent focal length of the lens, also known as the "1/mm rule". For example, at a focal length of 125 mm on a 35 mm camera, vibration or camera shake could affect sharpness if the shutter speed is slower than  second. As a result of the 2-to-4.5-stops slower shutter speeds allowed by IS, an image taken at  second speed with an ordinary lens could be taken at  or  second with an IS-equipped lens and produce almost the same quality. The sharpness obtainable at a given speed can increase dramatically.
When calculating the effective focal length, it is important to take into account the image format a camera uses. For example, many digital SLR cameras use an image sensor that is , , or  the size of a 35 mm film frame. This means that the 35 mm frame is 1.5, 1.6, or 2 times the size of the digital sensor. The latter values are referred to as the crop factor, field-of-view crop factor, focal-length multiplier, or format factor. On a 2× crop factor camera, for instance, a 50 mm lens produces the same field of view as a 100 mm lens used on a 35 mm film camera, and can typically be handheld at  second.

However, image stabilization does not prevent motion blur caused by the movement of the subject or by extreme movements of the camera. Image stabilization is only designed for and capable of reducing blur that results from normal, minute shaking of a lens due to hand-held shooting.  Some lenses and camera bodies include a secondary panning mode or a more aggressive 'active mode', both described in greater detail below under optical image stabilization.

Astrophotography makes much use of long-exposure photography, which requires the camera to be fixed in place.  However, fastening it to the Earth is not enough, since the Earth rotates. The Pentax K-5 and K-r, when equipped with the O-GPS1 GPS accessory for position data, can use their sensor-shift capability to reduce the resulting star trails.

Stabilization can be applied in the lens, or in the camera body.  Each method has distinctive advantages and disadvantages.

Techniques

Optical image stabilization 

An optical image stabilizer (OIS, IS, or OS) is a mechanism used in still or video cameras that stabilizes the recorded image by varying the optical path to the sensor. This technology is implemented in the lens itself, as distinct from in-body image stabilization (IBIS), which operates by moving the sensor as the final element in the optical path. The key element of all optical stabilization systems is that they stabilize the image projected on the sensor before the sensor converts the image into digital information. IBIS can have up to 5 axis of movement: X, Y, Roll, Yaw, and Pitch. IBIS has the added advantage of working with all lenses.

Benefits of OIS...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-51 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I’ve got a quick window between meetings—mind helping me think through a couple of things?

Chatbot: Of course! What’s on your mind?

Person: Well, it’s a mix of logistics and some longer-term planning. The week’s been pretty packed given my regular routine, plus a few extra assignments. By the way, are you familiar with the process for requesting leave when you’re balancing rotations and some field exercises?

Chatbot: I’m familiar with various protocols across organizations. Are you referring to military procedures for requesting leave while handling your usual roster and field responsibilities?

Person: Yeah, exactly that. I have to track everything so tight, especially when command pops in with last-minute changes. I went through all the necessary leadership development coursework, but they don’t really touch on the mechanics of how to juggle both the administrative side and the operational stuff.

Chatbot: Definitely, hands-on logistics and official policies don’t always align. When you mention juggling admin and operational work, is it mostly documentation, chain of command communications, or a mix?

Person: Bit of everything. And it gets trickier because, let’s say, when your last duty station wasn’t even in the US, protocols could be a little different. It took me a while to adjust—imagine switching from using kilometers one month to miles the next.

Chatbot: That’s quite an international transition! Have you noticed many differences in the paperwork or just the day-to-day culture?

Person: Both, honestly. When you grow up crossing borders often, some habits stick—I still check for the nearest embassy if I’m in a new city, even on vacation. Makes me notice little things, especially when handling official paperwork. At least I never have to worry about language barriers.

Chatbot: That’s a useful skill set. Do you ever draw on your background—maybe knowledge from coursework or past travels—when it comes to working in diverse teams?

Person: Absolutely. My team is super multinational, and I’m usually the default point person when we have an international incident or some documents need translating. I guess my childhood made me adaptable. You know, hearing your parents talk about their home and different customs, then learning to blend in wherever you land.

Chatbot: Sounds like you have a global outlook rooted in personal experience. How do you leverage that in your current assignments?

Person: I’ve led some briefings on cultural nuances, especially when we have joint training with allied units. I guess grad school helped, too. All that research on international relations, theory and practice—it makes a difference when you’re the one expected to handle both policy and practical challenges on short notice.

Chatbot: That’s impressive. Speaking of grad school, do you ever find yourself applying what you learned in those courses to your current roles, or is it a different world altogether?

Person: I keep a couple of my old textbooks on the bookshelf in my office—never thought I’d reference some of those case studies again, but they’re handy. I remember writing a thesis on organizational effectiveness in cross-cultural settings. Some of my ideas actually ended up in a training module for my unit.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re able to connect academic theory with workplace practice, which not everyone manages to do. Can you tell me about a situation where your research experience made an immediate difference on the ground?

Person: Sure—last year we had an exercise that paired my unit with a partner nation’s regiment. There were some miscommunications early on. I pulled from some conflict resolution models I’d studied—broke down a few assumptions and got everyone talking openly. It turned a tense situation into a strong partnership.

Chatbot: Great example of bridging theory and practice. On a different note, does your work routine change much depending on your location or assignment?

Person: Oh, definitely. Back when I was stationed overseas, the daily rhythm was different. Here in the capital, everything is more compact—my commute goes right past those iconic marble buildings, and you can never escape the sound of sirens. But even with the bustle, time management is easier without a time zone jump.

Chatbot: Living and working so close to the seat of government must give you a unique perspective. Have you found any favorite local spots to unwind when off duty?

Person: There are a few. The National Mall is my favorite running route—especially early in the morning before the tourists swarm the monuments. I’ll sometimes grab coffee in a place with a view of the Capitol if I can snag a seat. Even after a couple of years, the view never gets old.

Chatbot: Sounds beautiful—and invigorating for the start of the day. Has being in such a historic city shaped your sense of connection to your work or to the country?

Person: That’s a good question. I think being here makes the broader mission feel more tangible. When you’re surrounded by reminders of history, you really sense the weight of responsibility. And for someone who didn’t always wake up on the same side of the Atlantic, it drives home what it means to serve in this particular context.

Chatbot: That’s a powerful reflection. From what you’ve shared, you’ve experienced quite a bit of transition—different countries, adjusting to new systems, and moving between civilian, academic, and military spheres. Has that shaped your approach to leadership?

Person: Without a doubt. Having to adapt repeatedly makes you think about inclusion—not just diversity in the checkbox sense, but actual empathy. You see all sorts of leadership styles when you move a lot, and it makes you more aware of what works and what doesn’t, particularly in high-stress environments.

Chatbot: I imagine adaptability also helps with decision-making on the fly, especially in your field. How do you balance the structure of regulations with the need for flexibility?

Person: Training helps, as does muscle memory. But honestly, sometimes you have to trust your gut—within parameters, of course. The manuals may say one thing, but context is everything, especially when leading teams who might see things differently based on their backgrounds or experiences.

Chatbot: It seems you’re adept at navigating complexity on both the personal and professional levels. Curious—do you see yourself staying in your current sector long-term, or are you contemplating other options?

Person: I’m open to it, though the discipline and teamwork here are tough to match. That said, I keep in touch with colleagues who’ve moved on to NGOs or consulting. With my graduate research and fieldwork, consulting in strategy or international relations might be a smooth transition if I ever hang up the uniform.

Chatbot: That makes sense, given your background. Has your education played a role in opening those doors—or is it more about networking and experience?

Person: It’s all three, really. The degree opened doors that practical experience alone wouldn’t, and connections from university helped land some key interviews. Interestingly, some of my closest contacts come from our alumni association—the conversations there can get pretty deep, especially around global policy.

Chatbot: Are you staying involved with alumni events or academic circles, given your current schedule?

Person: I try to attend at least one symposium a year, usually in person if duty allows. The most recent one was just a couple Metro stops from my barracks. We had a roundtable discussion on border security—I brought a few insights from my own deployments and the legal frameworks I’ve studied. At the end, a few folks stuck around to debate international law, which never gets old for me.

Chatbot: That’s great. It sounds like you still have one foot in the scholarly world, even while working full-time. Do you find that community helps keep you motivated or inspired?

Person: It does. When you’re surrounded by people who value knowledge and service, it pushes you to keep learning. And in my position, you need that intellectual curiousity—policies shift fast here, and if you aren’t keeping pace, you’ll be left behind.

Chatbot: Have any books, professors, or classes been particularly influential on your professional path?

Person: Quite a few. Dr. Williams, my thesis advisor, encouraged me to look at regional alliances through the lens of history, not just current events. Takes patience, but when you apply that mindset to operational planning, it really pays off. I owe a lot to the international law seminar, too—sometimes I even refer back to my old notes before a big briefing.

Chatbot: That’s a great endorsement for lifelong learning. Shifting gears slightly, how do you navigate work-life balance given your role and the expectations placed on service members?

Person: That’s a constant challenge. The support network here is better than what I remember in my last assignment—more peer groups and access to counseling. I also try to set time aside for family. It’s easier now than when I was living out of a duffel bag on another continent.

Chatbot: Maintaining those connections sounds vital. Does your family live nearby, or are they further away?

Person: They’re mostly elsewhere—scattered across a couple of continents, actually, but we video call often. Holidays can be a bit unconventional; I’m used to dialing in when everyone else is sitting down for Thanksgiving dinner several time zones away.

Chatbot: So you’ve found ways to stay close, even across distance. That’s admirable. By the way, do you ever get a chance to travel for leisure, or is it mostly for work?

Person: Mostly for work, but I sneak in some sightseeing when I can—passport’s gotten a workout over the years. I’ve been to places most people only see in National Geographic. Sometimes I joke with friends that moving every few years is its own kind of education.

Chatbot: Speaking of moving around, do you identify most with your original home or the places you’ve lived? How do you answer the classic question, “Where are you from?”

Person: That’s always a tough one. Usually I tell people I’m “from everywhere and nowhere”—had my first memories in one country, but always had a foot in the States since childhood. I still have to double-check the anthem they’ll play at sporting events. Officially, though, I’ve always traveled on a blue passport.

Chatbot: Sounds like a true citizen of the world. On another note, what’s something about DC that surprises people who haven’t lived there?

Person: Everyone imagines politicians and monuments, but they forget it’s a real city. There are neighborhoods with real character: rowhouses with creaky floors, markets where vendors remember your order, streets filled with cherry blossoms when spring hits. And the food scene is incredible—Ethiopian, Salvadoran, Vietnamese, you name it.

Chatbot: You paint a vivid picture. With such a dynamic lifestyle, how do you handle stress or downtime?

Person: Exercise helps—most mornings I hit the gym before morning reports. I also like to read, especially nonfiction; history and politics, of course, but also biographies. And sometimes I’ll just walk by the Tidal Basin at sunset and let my mind wander.

Chatbot: Have you built friendships locally, or is it challenging with the nature of your work?

Person: You end up with a “chosen family”—buddies from my unit, neighbors in the halls, a running group that meets Saturdays near the monuments. Most new faces don’t stay long, but the friendships you make here are forged through shared stress and long nights.

Chatbot: Given that camaraderie, does your unit do anything special for morale?

Person: We do. Sometimes it’s as simple as a group cookout—grilling out behind the barracks, swapping stories. We also volunteer together: last month we packed care packages for folks overseas. Those simple gestures make a huge difference.

Chatbot: That must strengthen bonds considerably. Do you ever mentor or lead trainings for newer members?

Person: That’s become a big part of my role. I run monthly workshops—leadership, cross-cultural basics, crisis response. I like to challenge the new folks: “What would you do if protocol went out the window?” It keeps everyone sharp.

Chatbot: I imagine those sessions are invaluable, given your diverse experiences. Last question: if you could give one piece of advice to someone new to your field—whether they’re just starting or are on their first assignment abroad—what would you say?

Person: Stay curious, stay humble, and invest in relationships. The coursework, the regulations—all that matters, but in the end, people are the backbone of any mission. Oh, and never underestimate the value of a well-packed suitcase. You never know where you’ll be needed next.

Chatbot: Wise advice, and a testament to your experience and adaptability. Thanks for sharing your perspective—and for your time! If you ever want to chat more about anything—strategy, history, or just where to grab the best coffee downtown—I’m here.

Person: Appreciate it. I’ll take you up on that next time I have a planning block or just need a new book recommendation. Enjoy your day!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-45 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning! Thanks for seeing me today.  
Doctor: Good morning! It’s my pleasure. What brings you in today?  
Patient: I wanted to get a general check-up, but also talk about this lingering tiredness I’ve felt lately. Between work and everything else, I just can’t seem to shake it.  
Doctor: Got it. Can you tell me a little more about your symptoms? How long have you felt this way?  
Patient: It’s probably been a few weeks, maybe a month. I work on the sales floor at a clothing store, so I’m on my feet a lot and sometimes work double shifts, especially as we get closer to the holiday season. But even on my days off, I just want to sleep.  
Doctor: That sounds exhausting. Does your role involve mostly customer service, or do you do other things at the store?  
Patient: Mostly helping customers, stocking, ringing people up, stuff like that. Retail work, you know, talking to folks all day.  
Doctor: I see. And how’s your sleep been at night? Are you able to fall asleep easily?  
Patient: I sleep okay, usually about seven hours. But no matter what, I wake up feeling like I haven’t rested.  
Doctor: Understood. Any recent life changes or stress, aside from work?  
Patient: Not anything major. I did finish college a while ago, which helped me land my current position, but it’s been a couple of years since then.  
Doctor: Congratulations on graduating, by the way! What did you study?  
Patient: I have a four-year degree in marketing. I’m hoping to move up at my store eventually.  
Doctor: That’s great. Being in sales can be intense. Any issues with your appetite, mood, or concentration lately?  
Patient: My appetite is about the same. I do find myself getting a bit irritable, especially when I’m dealing with a rush at work. Concentration is hit-or-miss—I can stay focused with customers, but I’ll forget little things, like grabbing something from storage.  
Doctor: That’s understandable with your schedule. Have you had any recent infections, illnesses, or injuries?  
Patient: No, nothing like that.  
Doctor: Are you taking any medications or supplements right now?  
Patient: Just a daily multivitamin. Nothing prescribed.  
Doctor: And when was your last check-up?  
Patient: Not since last fall. I’ve honestly lost track, but I think it’s been a little over a year.  
Doctor: All right. I’ll want to update your records. Can you confirm some information for me?  
Patient: Sure, what do you need?  
Doctor: Let’s start with your date of birth.  
Patient: That’s the thirtieth of October, 1989.  
Doctor: Thank you. And for our files, could you give me your social security, just to keep everything matched up?  
Patient: Of course. It’s one five seven, eight one, two six two two.  
Doctor: Thank you, I’ve got that down. And just to double-check, are you using any name that might be different from what’s on your insurance?  
Patient: No, my legal name is what’s on my card.  
Doctor: Great. Regarding your medical history, any hospitalizations or chronic conditions?  
Patient: Never spent time in the hospital, and no chronic stuff.  
Doctor: Have you traveled at all in the past few months, or experienced any changes in your living environment?  
Patient: No trips out of the country lately. My family moved to the States years back, and I settled here after going through the process to get my citizenship, so I stick pretty close to home.  
Doctor: Understood. And do you have any allergies?  
Patient: None that I know of.  
Doctor: Now, you mentioned being on your feet a lot at work. Any issues with joint pain, swelling, or muscle aches?  
Patient: My feet hurt at the end of a shift, but I chalk it up to bad shoes sometimes. No swelling, though.  
Doctor: If it gets worse, we might want to look into better footwear or even supportive insoles.  
Patient: Yeah, maybe I’ll splurge on those. Sometimes I wish retail meant a little more sitting.  
Doctor: You mentioned you’d like to move up in your company—are you taking any further courses or certifications?  
Patient: Not currently. I finished my studies already with my bachelor’s, so I’m mostly just gaining hands-on experience right now. Maybe in the future I’ll look at management training.  
Doctor: That makes sense. And mentally—how do you feel overall? Any signs of anxiety or depression?  
Patient: I wouldn’t say depression, but I do get anxious at times, especially if sales quotas are tight. I’m usually able to handle it, though I do find venting to friends helps.  
Doctor: Do you have a good support system here—family, friends?  
Patient: Yeah, I have a few close friends I can count on. My parents live about an hour away. They came here from Europe when I was a kid, so most of my extended family is still back there.  
Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. Any changes in your menstrual cycle, if you don’t mind me asking?  
Patient: I don’t mind. Things are pretty regular—about every twenty-eight days. No major issues there.  
Doctor: And have you had a Pap smear within the recommended timeframe?  
Patient: I had one two years ago. Do I need to schedule another?  
Doctor: It’s about time for another, yes. We can set that up today.  
Patient: Okay, sounds good.  
Doctor: Now, just to make sure we touch base on preventive care, are you up-to-date on vaccinations?  
Patient: I believe so. My records should have everything, but if not, let me know and I’ll bring what I have.  
Doctor: Will do. Lastly, how would you describe your daily stress level?  
Patient: It varies. During holiday sales or if we're short-staffed, I’m definitely at the higher end. But usually, I manage. I try staying organized, thanks to all those group projects in college, I guess.  
Doctor: You seem to handle things well. Based on what you’ve told me, I’d like to check some labs to rule out anemia or thyroid problems—just to be thorough, since fatigue can be from several causes.  
Patient: That’s fine. I’d rather know for sure.  
Doctor: Great. We'll also do that Pap smear and update any needed vaccines. Is there anything else you wanted to discuss today?  
Patient: No, I think that covers it. Thanks for listening and making sure everything’s in order.  
Doctor: It’s my job! I’ll have you step over to the nurse for the labs and we’ll call you with results. If anything urgent comes up, don’t hesitate to reach out.  
Patient: I will. Thanks again, doc.  
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-32 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Of course! What brings you in this afternoon?

Patient: I’ve been feeling really wiped out at work lately. Like, by the time my shift’s done, I just want to crash. Not sure if that’s normal for my age or what.

Doctor: I see. Can you tell me a bit about your job? What kind of work do you do?

Patient: I have a job as a stock clerk, so I’m on my feet stacking boxes most days. Nothing fancy, but it’s a lot of lifting and walking around. I’m still going to work every day, haven’t missed any shifts.

Doctor: That does sound physically demanding, especially if you’re not used to it. How long have you had this job?

Patient: I started there about six months ago. It’s my first real job, you know. I’m a civilian worker at one of the big chain stores here in oh.

Doctor: Got it. So, no previous experience with jobs like this then?

Patient: Not really. Just helped out with chores and stuff around home before this.

Doctor: And how old are you?

Patient: I turned sixteen late last year, mid November. My birthday's on the thirteenth, so I had to wait until then to apply for most places, but I got lucky pretty quick.

Doctor: Happy belated birthday! Sixteen is a busy age to be balancing work and everything else. Are you in school too?

Patient: Yeah, I’m in eighth grade still. Should move up at the end of the year, but balancing homework and work shifts gets rough sometimes.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Eighth grade is a big transition period, and with work on top, it can be exhausting. How are your grades?

Patient: They’re okay; I’m doing enough to pass but not acing everything. Just trying to keep up, really.

Doctor: And are you involved in any extracurricular activities, or is it just school and work for now?

Patient: Just sticking with school and working for now. Got no time for sports or anything extra. Never really had much going on besides that anyway.

Doctor: Outside of tiredness after work, are you experiencing any other symptoms? Headaches, trouble sleeping, changes in appetite?

Patient: Sometimes I get headaches, yeah, probably because I don’t drink enough water when I’m running around at work. Sleep’s alright unless I have to stay late doing inventory, then I can be up past midnight.

Doctor: Alright. What about your home life? Any big changes or stresses lately?

Patient: Not really. Still live with my folks. I don’t have a girlfriend or anything like that. Never been married—guess that’d be illegal at my age anyway!

Doctor: That’s true! Just wanted to cover all the basics. Do you take any medications regularly?

Patient: Nah, nothing like that. Pretty healthy overall.

Doctor: Have you had any recent illnesses or injuries? Anything I should know about?

Patient: Nope, not that I can think of.

Doctor: Alright. You said you’re living in Ohio? Just want to make sure our records are up to date.

Patient: Yeah, I live in oh, been here my whole life actually.

Doctor: And do you have your identification or any forms with you, by chance?

Patient: Yeah, I filled out the papers at reception. They needed my ID and Social Security to add to the system. My social’s 8-6-4, ninety-nine, zero-nine-one-seven if you need it again.

Doctor: Thank you. I appreciate you providing that. So, based on what you’ve described—feeling worn out mostly after work, headaches once in a while, sleep affected only if you’re working really late—it sounds like your body might be adjusting to the demands of your job and school. Are you eating regular meals?

Patient: I try to grab lunch at the store on my lunch break, then dinner at home after my shift. Breakfast is hit or miss depending how rushed I am in the morning.

Doctor: It might help your energy levels to make breakfast more of a habit. Even something small can help maintain your energy throughout the day. How’s your mood been lately? Any feelings of sadness, anxiety, or getting overwhelmed?

Patient: Sometimes I feel stressed out, especially if I have a test after work or if something big is coming up, but nothing major. I don’t really get super anxious, just tired.

Doctor: That makes sense. These are all normal feelings with your schedule. To help combat the fatigue, I suggest focusing on hydration, diet, and sleep. Try to get at least 8 hours of rest when you can and include water breaks during your shifts. If you find your symptoms getting worse or affecting your day-to-day life, it would be good to check back in.

Patient: Okay, I can work on that. Sometimes it feels like older people act like I shouldn't get tired, but this stuff is tough, especially for someone just finishing grade eight.

Doctor: Absolutely, it’s a big adjustment, and your body needs time to adapt. Make sure you advocate for yourself—talk to your manager if you need regular breaks. Ohio’s labor laws for minors also have restrictions, so don’t hesitate to remind them if shifts get too long or late.

Patient: I’ll keep that in mind. My folks always make sure they know my schedule, and school’s a priority, so I think I’m alright.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. With your dedication, you’re doing all the right things. If you start feeling worse or new symptoms pop up, come back and see me, okay?

Patient: Will do. Thanks for your help and advice.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Good luck with work and school, and remember to take care of yourself.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_30 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Borel measure

In mathematics, specifically in measure theory, a Borel measure on  a topological space is a measure that is defined on all open sets (and thus on all Borel sets). Some authors require additional restrictions on the measure, as described below.

Formal definition
Let  be a locally compact Hausdorff space, and let  be the smallest σ-algebra that contains the open sets of ; this is known as the σ-algebra of Borel sets.  A Borel measure is any measure  defined on the σ-algebra of Borel sets. A few authors require in addition that  is locally finite, meaning that  for every compact set .  If a Borel measure  is both inner regular and outer regular, it is called a regular Borel measure. If  is both inner regular, outer regular, and locally finite, it is called a Radon measure.

On the real line
The real line  with its usual topology is a locally compact Hausdorff space; hence we can define a Borel measure on it. In this case,  is the smallest σ-algebra that contains the open intervals of . While there are many Borel measures μ, the choice of Borel measure that assigns  for every half-open interval  is sometimes called "the" Borel measure on . This measure turns out to be the restriction to the Borel σ-algebra of the Lebesgue measure , which is a complete measure and is defined on the Lebesgue σ-algebra. The Lebesgue σ-algebra is actually the completion of the Borel σ-algebra, which means that it is the smallest σ-algebra that contains all the Borel sets and can be equipped with a complete measure. Also, the Borel measure and the Lebesgue measure coincide on the Borel sets (i.e.,  for every Borel measurable set, where  is the Borel measure described above).

Product spaces
If X and Y are second-countable, Hausdorff topological spaces, then the set of Borel subsets  of their product coincides with the product of the sets  of Borel subsets of X and Y. That is, the Borel functor 
  
from the category of second-countable Hausdorff spaces to the category of measurable spaces preserves finite products.

Applications

Lebesgue–Stieltjes integral

The Lebesgue–Stieltjes integral is the ordinary Lebesgue integral with respect to a measure known as the Lebesgue–Stieltjes measure, which may be associated to any function of bounded variation on the real line.  The Lebesgue–Stieltjes measure is a regular Borel measure, and conversely every regular Borel measure on the real line is of this kind.

Laplace transform

One can define the Laplace transform of a finite Borel measure μ on the real line by the Lebesgue integral

 

An important special case is where μ is a probability measure or, even more specifically, the Dirac delta function. In operational calculus, the Laplace transform of a measure is often treated as though the measure came from a distribution function f.  In that case, to avoid potential confusion, one often writes

 

where the lower limit of 0− is shorthand notation for

 

This limit emphasizes that any point mass located at 0 is entirely captured by the Laplace transform.  Although with the Lebesgue integral, it is not necessary to take such a limit, it does appear more naturally in connection with the Laplace–Stieltjes transform.

Hausdorff dimension and Frostman's lemma

Given a Borel measure μ on a metric space X such that μ(X) > 0 and μ(B(x, r)) ≤ rs holds for some constant s > 0 and for every ball B(x, r) in X, then the Hausdorff dimension dimHaus(X) ≥ s. A partial converse is provided by the Frostman lemma:

Lemma: Let A be a Borel subset of Rn, and let s > 0. Then the following are equivalent:
Hs(A) > 0, where Hs denotes the s-dimensional Hausdorff measure.
There is an (unsigned) Borel measure μ satisfying μ(A) > 0, and such that 
 
holds for all x ∈ Rn and r > 0.

Cramér–Wold theorem

The Cramér–Wold theorem in measure theory states that a Borel probability measure on  is uniquely determined by the totality of its one-dimensional projections. It is used as a method for proving joint convergence results. The theorem...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_16 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# ACE inhibitor

Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are a class of medication used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. This class of medicine works by causing relaxation of blood vessels as well as a decrease in blood volume, which leads to lower blood pressure and decreased oxygen demand from the heart.

ACE inhibitors inhibit the activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme, an important component of the renin–angiotensin system which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, and hydrolyses bradykinin. Therefore, ACE inhibitors decrease the formation of angiotensin II, a vasoconstrictor, and increase the level of bradykinin, a peptide vasodilator. This combination is synergistic in lowering blood pressure. As a result of inhibiting the ACE enzyme in the bradykinin system, the ACE inhibitor drugs allow for increased levels of bradykinin which would normally be degraded. Bradykinin produces prostaglandin. This mechanism can explain the two most common side effects seen with ACE Inhibitors: angioedema and cough.

Frequently prescribed ACE inhibitors include benazepril, zofenopril, perindopril, trandolapril, captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, and ramipril.

Medical use
ACE inhibitors were initially approved for the treatment of hypertension and can be used alone or in combination with other anti-hypertensive medications.  Later, they were found useful for other cardiovascular and kidney diseases including:
 Acute myocardial infarction (heart attack)
 Heart failure (left ventricular systolic dysfunction)
 Kidney complications of diabetes mellitus (diabetic nephropathy) by means of decreasing the blood pressure and increasing perfusion in glomerular arterioles.

In treating high blood pressure, ACE inhibitors are often the first drug choice, particularly when diabetes is present, but age can lead to different choices and it is common to need more than one drug to obtain the desired improvement. There are fixed-dose combination drugs, such as ACE inhibitor and thiazide combinations. ACE inhibitors have also been used in chronic kidney failure and kidney involvement in systemic sclerosis (hardening of tissues, as scleroderma renal crisis). In those with stable coronary artery disease, but no heart failure, benefits are similar to other usual treatments.

In 2012, there was a meta-analysis published in the BMJ that described the protective role of ACE inhibitors in reducing the risk of pneumonia when compared to angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARBs). The authors found a decreased risk in patients with previous stroke (54% risk reduction), with heart failure (37%  risk reduction), and of Asian descent (43% risk reduction vs 54% risk reduction in non-Asian population). However, no reduced pneumonia related mortality was observed.

Other
ACE inhibitors may also be used to help decrease excessive water consumption in people with schizophrenia resulting in psychogenic polydipsia. A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial showed that when used for this purpose, enalapril led to decreased consumption (determined by urine output and osmolality) in 60% of people; the same effect has been demonstrated in other ACE inhibitors.

Additionally ACE-I are commonly used after renal transplant to manage post-transplant erythrocytosis, a condition characterised by a persistently high hematocrit greater than 51% which often develops 8–24 months after successful transplantation, as ACE-I have been shown to decrease erythropoietin production.

Adverse effects
Common side effects include: low blood pressure, cough, hyperkalemia, headache, dizziness, fatigue, nausea, and kidney impairment.

The main adverse effects of ACE inhibition can be understood from their pharmacological action. The other reported adverse effects are liver problems and effects on the fetus. Kidney problems may occur with all ACE inhibitors that directly follows from their mechanism of action. Patients starting on an ACE inhibitor usually have a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_8 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Agarose gel electrophoresis

Agarose gel electrophoresis is a method of gel electrophoresis used in biochemistry, molecular biology, genetics, and clinical chemistry to separate a mixed population of macromolecules such as DNA or proteins in a matrix of agarose, one of the two main components of agar. The proteins may be separated by charge and/or size (isoelectric focusing agarose electrophoresis is essentially size independent), and the DNA and RNA fragments by length. Biomolecules are separated by applying an electric field to move the charged molecules through an agarose matrix, and the biomolecules are separated by size in the agarose gel matrix.

Agarose gel is easy to cast, has relatively fewer charged groups, and is particularly suitable for separating DNA of size range most often encountered in laboratories, which accounts for the popularity of its use. The separated DNA may be viewed with stain, most commonly under UV light, and the DNA fragments can be extracted from the gel with relative ease. Most agarose gels used are between 0.7–2% dissolved in a suitable electrophoresis buffer.

Properties of agarose gel

Agarose gel is a three-dimensional matrix formed of helical agarose molecules in supercoiled bundles that are aggregated into three-dimensional structures with channels and pores through which biomolecules can pass. The 3-D structure is held together with hydrogen bonds and can therefore be disrupted by heating back to a liquid state. The melting temperature is different from the gelling temperature, depending on the sources, agarose gel has a gelling temperature of 35–42 °C and a melting temperature of 85–95 °C. Low-melting and low-gelling agaroses made through chemical modifications are also available.

Agarose gel has large pore size and good gel strength, making it suitable as an anticonvection medium for the electrophoresis of DNA and large protein molecules. The pore size of a 1% gel has been estimated from 100 nm to 200–500 nm, and its gel strength allows gels as dilute as 0.15% to form a slab for gel electrophoresis. Low-concentration gels (0.1–0.2%) however are fragile and therefore hard to handle. Agarose gel has lower resolving power than polyacrylamide gel for DNA but has a greater range of separation, and is therefore used for DNA fragments of usually 50–20,000 bp in size. The limit of resolution for standard agarose gel electrophoresis is around 750 kb, but resolution of over 6 Mb is possible with pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). It can also be used to separate large proteins, and it is the preferred matrix for the gel electrophoresis of particles with effective radii larger than 5–10 nm. A 0.9% agarose gel has pores large enough for the entry of bacteriophage T4.

The agarose polymer contains charged groups, in particular pyruvate and sulphate.  These negatively charged groups create a flow of water in the opposite direction to the movement of DNA in a process called electroendosmosis (EEO), and can therefore retard the movement of DNA and cause blurring of bands. Higher concentration gels would have higher electroendosmotic flow. Low EEO agarose is therefore generally preferred for use in agarose gel electrophoresis of nucleic acids, but high EEO agarose may be used for other purposes. The lower sulphate content of low EEO agarose, particularly low-melting point (LMP) agarose, is also beneficial in cases where the DNA extracted from gel is to be used for further manipulation as the presence of contaminating sulphates may affect some subsequent procedures, such as ligation and PCR.  Zero EEO agaroses however are undesirable for some applications as they may be made by adding positively charged groups and such groups can affect subsequent enzyme reactions.   Electroendosmosis is a reason agarose is used in preference to agar as the agaropectin component in agar contains a significant amount of negatively charged sulphate and carboxyl groups. The removal of agaropectin in agarose substantially reduces the EEO, as...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_137 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Optical flat

An optical flat is an optical-grade piece of glass lapped and polished to be extremely flat on one or both sides, usually within a few tens of nanometres (billionths of a metre). They are used with a monochromatic light to determine the flatness (surface accuracy) of other surfaces, whether optical, metallic, ceramic, or otherwise, by interference. When an optical flat is placed on another surface and illuminated,  the light waves reflect off both the bottom surface of the flat and the surface it is resting on. This causes a phenomenon similar to thin-film interference. The reflected waves interfere, creating a pattern of interference fringes visible as light and dark bands. The spacing between the fringes is smaller where the gap is changing more rapidly, indicating a departure from flatness in one of the two surfaces. This is comparable to the contour lines one would find on a map. A flat surface is indicated by a pattern of straight, parallel fringes with equal spacing, while other patterns indicate uneven surfaces. Two adjacent fringes indicate a difference in elevation of one-half wavelength of the light used, so by counting the fringes, differences in elevation of the surface can be measured to better than one micrometre.

Usually only one of the two surfaces of an optical flat is made flat to the specified tolerance, and this surface is indicated by an arrow on the edge of the glass.

Optical flats are sometimes given an optical coating and used as precision mirrors or optical windows for special purposes, such as in a Fabry–Pérot interferometer or laser cavity. Optical flats have uses in spectrophotometry as well.

Flatness testing

An optical flat is usually placed upon a flat surface to be tested. If the surface is clean and reflective enough, rainbow colored bands of interference fringes will form when the test piece is illuminated with white light. However, if a monochromatic light is used to illuminate the work piece, such as helium, low-pressure sodium, or a laser, then a series of dark and light interference fringes will form. These interference fringes determine the flatness of the work piece, relative to the optical flat, to within a fraction of the wavelength of the light. If both surfaces are perfectly the same flatness and parallel to each other, no interference fringes will form. However, there is usually some air trapped between the surfaces. If the surfaces are flat, but a tiny optical wedge of air exists between them, then straight, parallel interference fringes will form, indicating the angle of the wedge (i.e.: more, thinner fringes indicate a steeper wedge while fewer but wider fringes indicate less of a wedge). The shape of the fringes also indicate the shape of the test surface, because fringes with a bend, a contour, or rings indicate high and low points on the surface, such as rounded edges, hills or valleys, or convex and concave surfaces.

Preparation
Both the optical flat and the surface to be tested need to be extremely clean. The tiniest bit of dust settling between the surfaces can ruin the results. Even the thickness of a streak or a fingerprint on the surfaces can be enough to change the width of the gap between them. Before the test, the surfaces are usually cleaned very thoroughly. Most commonly, acetone is used as the cleaning agent, because it dissolves most oils and it evaporates completely, leaving no residue. Typically, the surface will be cleaned using the "drag" method, in which a lint-free, scratch-free tissue is wetted, stretched, and dragged across the surface, pulling any impurities along with it. This process is usually performed dozens of times, ensuring that the surface is completely free of impurities. A new tissue will need to be used each time, to prevent recontamination of the surfaces from previously removed dust and oils.

Testing is often done in a clean-room or another dust-free environment, keeping the dust from settling on the surfaces between cleaning and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-40 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for hopping on today. How are you doing?

Other: Hey! I’m doing well, thanks. And you?

Target: Pretty good. Honestly, it’s nice to have a little break from my usual audio files—sometimes I forget what it’s like to talk to an actual person instead of just listening to them all day!

Other: Oh wow, I don’t think I could do your job. That seems like a lot of sitting and listening. You work with recordings from hospitals, right?

Target: Pretty much nonstop, actually. Doctor dictations never end, you know? There’s always someone recording their notes at strange hours, and somehow it always lands in my queue, no matter what time I log on. At least today I left foot pedals and headsets aside for some human interaction.

Other: It must take some serious attention to detail. Are those clinical notes always easy to understand, or do you ever have to play detective?

Target: Oh, you wouldn’t believe the garbled messes I sometimes have to untangle! People say radiologists have the worst handwriting, but honestly, I think some surgeons are trying to break records with their mumbling. Sometimes I’m scrubbing back so many times I practically memorize the patient histories by heart.

Other: That sounds intense. Do you have any medical background or did you just pick it up as you went?

Target: I took a few classes a while back—lot of terminology, legal aspects, that sort of thing. Planned to finish up eventually, but then life happened, and the bills beat me to the graduation stage. So, I dove right in once I had enough credits. I keep telling myself I’ll go back someday, but so far, this gig’s kept me busy enough.

Other: I totally get that. Did you always want to go into something health-related, or did you kind of stumble into it?

Target: Honestly, it was almost fate. My grandma had some health scares growing up, and I was always the one reading instructions or talking to nurses for her. Kind of stuck with me. Couldn’t see myself working retail forever, so once I figured out I could put some of my classes to use and still work from my dining room table, I jumped at it.

Other: That’s so meaningful. Do you ever miss working outside of home, or do you like having that flexibility?

Target: I actually appreciate being able to step out and make lunch in my own kitchen, if I’m honest. Plus, on snowy mornings when the roads are icy, I don’t have to think twice about scraping off the windshield or fighting for parking down by the riverfront—just plug in and I’m at the “office.” Maybe it’s the Cleveland winters that converted me, but I’m not complaining.

Other: Sounds like you’ve made it work for you! Speaking of home, do you ever feel the need to get out more since you’re always at home for work?

Target: For sure. On Fridays, I’ll head down and catch a Guardians game or hit up the market with friends. My dad always told me, “Don’t let cabin fever get to you. Find your circle.” Cleveland’s got its charm, especially when the lake isn’t trying to snow on you.

Other: I bet! Everyone I know from that area is a diehard sports fan or always talking about their favorite food spots. Do you have a favorite restaurant?

Target: You know, I don’t think you can beat a good soul food spot. There’s this place down on Cedar that does a killer catfish and cornbread. I’ll take you next time you’re in town—you haven’t lived till you’ve had their greens. My mom still tries to one-up them, though. She thinks her mac and cheese is the best north of Memphis!

Other: That sounds incredible. So, it seems like you’ve found your groove there, balancing home life, work, and staying connected to your roots?

Target: Definitely. You know, in my family, every Sunday we have a big dinner after church. Everybody shows up—cousins, aunties, even folks we haven’t seen in forever. Sometimes we’ll pass around old photos or crank up some Motown and dance in the living room. It keeps me grounded, you know?

Other: That actually reminds me a bit of my own family. Who’s the best cook at those gatherings?

Target: Oh, that’s a toss-up! My uncle swears it’s him because he makes the best ribs on the block, but honestly, everybody’s got their specialty. For me, I stick to grandma’s sweet potato pie recipe. She always said you gotta add a little extra cinnamon and love to get it just right.

Other: Family recipes are the best. Do you find much time for yourself with all the work and family stuff?

Target: I do my best. Sometimes, after finishing up a long report—not every day is just “normal fracture, no acute findings”—I’ll wind down with my music. Bit of jazz, some R&B, maybe a little gospel on Sundays to set the mood. Helps me decompress before starting on the next round.

Other: That’s a really good way to stay grounded. Going back to your work, do you see a lot of the same terminology after a while, or is every recording a new challenge?

Target: At this point, I feel like I could dream in abbreviations—BP, COPD, CABG—you name it! But sometimes you get a new specialist who just switched over from a different hospital, and they bring in a whole different style. Occasionally, I’ll get calls asking to help train some newbies. That’s always fun, sharing tricks about how to catch the difference between “ileum” and “ilium,” so nobody puts the wrong info in the chart!

Other: It must be nice to use your experience like that. Did you always want to do something that helps people, even if it’s behind the scenes?

Target: Yeah, it matters to me, even if most patients never know my name. I figure every correct chart is someone avoiding the wrong prescription or not having to call in to clarify what was meant. My aunt used to be a nurse at MetroHealth, and she’s always pointed out that support roles are the backbone that keeps things going smoothly. You don’t have to see the spotlight to make a difference.

Other: Have you thought about working in a hospital or clinic itself, or do you prefer being remote?

Target: Once in a while, the idea crosses my mind. But I like being able to shut my laptop and visit my little nephew in the afternoon if he’s got a basketball game after school. Flexibility helps. Plus, to be honest, some days I might be in house slippers and a hoodie. Hard to give up that kind of comfort.

Other: That does sound pretty great! Have you noticed any big changes in your line of work since you started?

Target: Oh, for sure. When I started out, you couldn’t go three sentences without a transcriptionist having to double-check DOS-based software and foot pedal adapters. Now, with all the new platforms, sometimes I feel like I’m learning as much about tech as I am about medicine. Speech recognition tools are better, but they still don’t handle thick accents or multitasking doctors, so there’s always something to fix.

Other: That’s a good point. How do you keep up with all the new software and medical updates?

Target: I try to hit up the webinars and certification classes whenever I can. My old college emails me when they’re running a training series—one of these days I’ll actually finish that program, but meanwhile, I just soak up all the continuing ed credits and try to stay sharp. You never know what you’ll need to keep the job moving forward.

Other: Out of curiosity, do you ever think about switching careers or going back to school full-time?

Target: The thought’s crossed my mind. Sometimes I wonder what it’d be like finishing that degree or maybe training for something like a medical assistant role. But right now, I’ve got steady work, bills are paid, and I have the freedom to help out my folks if they need. Maybe once my schedule opens up a bit more, I’ll make that move.

Other: It sounds like you’ve carved out a solid path. Anything else you wish you’d known before diving in?

Target: I think I underestimated how connected you become to the stories you type up. Even though you’ve never met the patient, sometimes a phrase or diagnosis sticks with you and makes you remember what’s really at stake. I also had no idea how much collaboration might be involved—even though most days I’m working solo, I still get on group calls or message back and forth with folks from all over. You can’t really be an island, even in a remote gig.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. Is there anyone who really inspired you along the way?

Target: Definitely my mom. She always juggled work, home, and everything else without breaking a sweat. Growing up, I’d see her handle things in such a calm, dignified way—always making sure we carried ourselves with pride, no matter what. She’s big on reminding us how folks before us paved the way, you know? Even now, she’ll send me motivational quotes or gospel tracks, just to keep my spirit lifted when the work gets heavy.

Other: That support system really helps in stressful jobs, doesn’t it? Do you ever talk about your work with friends or family, or do they not really get what you do?

Target: Sometimes my friends tease me, saying I watch “medical Netflix without the video”—since I always have wild stories but can’t use any real names. My cousin, who works at City Hall, jokes that I’m the “secret keeper” of the family. But on the real, they’re proud, even if they don’t see exactly what goes on behind all the acronyms.

Other: I think that’s awesome. I know you mentioned Cleveland earlier, but have you always lived in Ohio? Do you like it there?

Target: Born and raised. I’ve done enough shoveling to earn my stripes! Even when I was studying, didn’t stray too far—just bounced between Akron and Columbus for a semester or two. It’s got its ups and downs, but you can’t beat that home-team spirit or how folks band together on a rough winter’s day. Plus, there’s something about seeing the skyline from the highway that lets you know you’re home.

Other: Home is home! Out of all the places you traveled to, is there anywhere else you’d want to live?

Target: I’ve got family out in Atlanta and spent a little time down there. The food’s fantastic, but summer heat is another story. Still, Ohio’s got my heart, especially when spring rolls around—those first days when you finally get to swap the heavy coat for a hoodie and the city wakes up again.

Other: Love that. Before we wrap, what’s one thing about your story or work that you wish more people understood?

Target: I think people underestimate the little roles—those jobs you don’t hear about unless something goes wrong. There’s always someone behind the scenes making sure records are right, the language matches up, and that everyone else has what they need to do their thing. Doesn’t matter if it’s typing up reports or helping a neighbor shovel their driveway—it all adds up. And it’s all worth being proud of.

Other: That’s inspiring. Thanks so much for sharing all this with me. I feel like I learned so much—not just about your job, but about what carries you through.

Target: Appreciate you saying that. If you’re ever in Cleveland and need a guide, just let me know. I’ll even save you a slice of sweet potato pie!

Other: That’s a deal. Thanks again for your time and your stories. Have a great afternoon!

Target: You too. Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_118 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Water dimer

The water dimer consists of two water molecules loosely bound by a hydrogen bond. It is the smallest water cluster. Because it is the simplest model system for studying hydrogen bonding in water, it has been the target of many theoretical  (and later experimental) studies that it has been called a "theoretical Guinea pig".

Structure and properties
The ab initio binding energy between the two water molecules is estimated to be 5-6 kcal/mol, although values between 3 and 8 have been obtained depending on the method. The experimentally measured dissociation energy (including nuclear quantum effects) of (H2O)2 and (D2O)2 are 3.16 ± 0.03 kcal/mol (13.22 ± 0.12 kJ/mol) and 3.56 ± 0.03 kcal/mol (14.88 ± 0.12 kJ/mol), respectively. The values are in excellent agreement with calculations. The O-O distance of the vibrational ground-state is experimentally measured at ca. 2.98 Å; the hydrogen bond is almost linear, but the angle with the plane of the acceptor molecule is about 57°. The vibrational ground-state is known as the linear water dimer (shown in the figure to the right), which is a near prolate top (viz., in terms of rotational constants, A > B ≈ C).  Other configurations of interest include the cyclic dimer and the bifurcated dimer.

History and relevance
The first theoretical study of the water dimer was an ab initio calculation published in 1968 by Morokuma and Pedersen. Since then, the water dimer has been the focus of sustained interest by theoretical chemists concerned with hydrogen bonding—a search of the CAS database up to 2006 returns over 1100 related references (73 of them in 2005).  In addition to serving as a model for hydrogen bonding, (H2O)2 is thought to play a significant role in many atmospheric processes, including chemical reactions, condensation, and solar energy absorption by the atmosphere.   In addition, a complete understanding of the water dimer is thought to play a key role in a more thorough understanding of hydrogen bonding in liquid and solid forms of water.

References

Forms of water
Water chemistry
Cluster chemistry
Dimers (chemistry)
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-97 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, it's my lunch break and I could really use a distraction. It’s been a noisy morning! Mind helping me brainstorm some DIY ways to reduce noise in the factory?

Chatbot: Of course! Reducing noise can make a big difference, especially in a busy production area. Could you tell me a little bit more about what kind of machines or activities are causing the most noise where you are?

Person: For sure. It's the big hoppers and those ball mills—they rumble like a freight train, especially when we’re mixing different grades of powder. The grinders also whine more than my ex after a weekend with the kids. I’m not expecting a miracle, but even a bit less headache would help.

Chatbot: That does sound pretty intense. Some common DIY fixes in industrial environments include hanging sound-absorbing curtains or installing panels, and rubber mats under machines. Is the noise mainly metallic, low, or high-pitched?

Person: It’s a brutal mix, honestly. The low drumming from the mill is constant, and then you get these high screeches when a batch is almost done. Some days I miss the peace and quiet of my old job—believe it or not, crushing rocks can be almost meditative! But not when you’re in a big crew and everything’s running at once.

Chatbot: Totally understandable. For those low drum sounds, placing thick mats or even tires underneath the machines might help. For high-frequency screeches, look at old moving blankets or dense foam around the housing. Are you allowed to make small adjustments to your workspace?

Person: As long as it doesn’t interfere with the machinery or block emergency exits, it’s fair game. I’ve actually got a stash of cardboard and some old foam we use for transporting ceramics—wonder if that’s worth a try around the blender controls? 

Chatbot: That could definitely help. Layering cardboard and foam can absorb a surprising amount of noise, especially with lighter materials. Just make sure everything’s clear of moving parts. How long have you been at this plant, if you don’t mind me asking?

Person: Coming up on seven years in June. I started back when my little one was in preschool—he’s a teenager now and way too cool to talk to his old man, except when he wants concert tickets. The job’s changed a lot. Used to be we had more consistency, but these days they switch grind types every few hours. Means lots of cleaning, and that adds to the hullabaloo.

Chatbot: Please tell me the cleaning process is at least rewarding! Or do you just get coated in powder and sweat? Also, it sounds like you have an eye for improving things—would you ever want to move up into a role focused on safety or workflow optimization?

Person: I get coated head to toe! At least I don’t wear white to work, ha. I’ve been approached about moving up to shift supervisor, but honestly, after what happened a few years back in my personal life, I’m more comfortable just sticking to my lane for a while. Less stress. Fewer calls after hours. I like heading home, cranking up some Springsteen, and switching gears.

Chatbot: That sounds very healthy. Sometimes focusing on the work and giving yourself space outside of it is the best medicine, especially after major life changes. On the topic of music: do you wear headphones to block any noise, or is that not allowed on the floor?

Person: Can’t wear headphones on the main floor, against the rules. They’re strict about safety after that close call with the conveyor in '21. But when we’re on break or doing prep in the break room, I’m all about tunes—lately, a mix of classic rock and 80s stuff. It takes me back to being a kid, biking around and saving up change for tapes.

Chatbot: Nice! There’s something timeless about 80s music. It’s funny how certain songs can bring back specific memories. Do you ever feel like your music taste has evolved with your work, or do you stick with your old favorites?

Person: Bit of both. I still listen to the favorites from my own “big hair” days, but my kid tries to get me into the current stuff. He showed me how to use that streaming service a couple years ago—made me feel ancient. I guess I’m lucky he’ll still hang out with me when there’s nothing cooler to do. The older I get, the more I appreciate those little moments.

Chatbot: That’s great to hear. Sometimes music is the bridge between generations. Do you find that your colleagues on the production line share your taste, or is it a mix across the board?

Person: It’s a total mix. Some of the younger guys are into EDM or whatever’s trending on TikTok, while the rest of us compete to sneak in some Stones or Metallica when we’re setting up in the morning. You know you’re getting up there when your coworkers call your favorites “oldies.” At least they let me DJ during cleanup, since I’m pretty fast with the mop!

Chatbot: Speaking of getting up there, any milestone birthdays or anniversaries coming up? Sometimes people like to mark those with a little celebration at work.

Person: Oh man, don’t remind me! Last fall was the big 4-0. My kid lit forty candles on my cake and threatened to call the fire department. At least he didn’t opt for black balloons—some of the guys pulled those out for the guy in packing last month and he’s still bitter! I tell myself I’m better preserved than I was in my twenties.

Chatbot: Turning 40 is definitely worth celebrating! Did you do anything special for your birthday, or were you working?

Person: I got lucky, it fell on a weekend. I treated myself to a steak dinner and took a long walk at the park the next day. I like birthdays that feel low-key these days. The last time it landed on a weekday, I was pulling a double and basically forgot it happened until my son reminded me. Getting older just means you’re better at picking what matters, I think.

Chatbot: That’s a great attitude. So, as a seasoned pro on the line—do your hands ever ache after long shifts? I’ve read that after years crushing and mixing, people get all kinds of stories written in their calluses.

Person: Oh, you know it. My palms could probably tell my whole life story. There’s one guy on my crew who likes to joke that you could identify all of us just from our glove sizes and fingerprints. I still remember my first week—blisters everywhere. Now I wear the thick gloves, but I still feel every vibration from the equipment (and sometimes from nerves, depending on what kind of batch we’re running). It’s all part of the job, I guess.

Chatbot: It takes real skill and endurance. Do you find any satisfaction in polishing the product at the end, seeing it all come together after a tough run?

Person: For sure. There’s something about starting with a jumble of coarse stuff and seeing it come out looking like smooth powder that goes off to make something else—tiles, paint, whatever. I always think to myself it’s like a fresh start with every batch. You get messy, you mix it up, and then it comes out better on the other side. Kind of a metaphor, I guess—especially after the last few years. I’ve had my share of things needing a fresh start.

Chatbot: That’s beautifully put. Speaking of fresh starts, do you find that work helps you process the seasons of life? Some find that routines at work are grounding after upheaval.

Person: Absolutely. After my divorce, work was the one thing that stayed the same. Things at home were messy, splitting time with my son, figuring out how to live in an apartment again after years in a house. Shifts on the line meant I didn’t have time to overthink things. I go in, put my head down, and when I clock out, I can focus on being a dad, a friend, or just myself. It’s not glamorous, but it keeps me steady.

Chatbot: That’s a strength, to build stability for yourself and your son. Have your routines at work changed since you found your own place?

Person: Yeah, a bit. I used to cover a lot of extra shifts but these days, I try to stick to my regular hours. I want to make it home to cook dinner or help my boy with homework—well, when he’ll let me. Teenagers aren’t exactly thrilled to hang out with dad every evening, but I think he appreciates me being around. The little things matter more now that it’s just the two of us during my custody days.

Chatbot: That’s really admirable. Finding that balance between work and family is no easy task, especially with a schedule as physical as yours. Do you ever get to take time off around holidays?

Person: Sometimes, though not always for the exact holidays. My anniversary with the company usually lands after school’s back in, so I take a long weekend to hit a fall festival with my son. Real holidays can be tricky since we run almost year-round, but I always try to get a day off close to his birthday—and mine, if possible. Last year, I lucked out and got to spend both with him, which hasn’t happened since he was little.

Chatbot: That must have been special. Getting both days off is like hitting the lottery with factory scheduling. Is there a particular holiday or time of year you look forward to the most?

Person: Honestly, autumn’s my favorite. Something about those crisp days and seeing all the leaves change on my walk to the line. Plus, our busiest time usually scales back just after the leaf-peepers clear out, so I can breathe a bit. October’s special to me—always feels like a time of new beginnings. I guess you could say I’m partial to that month for personal reasons.

Chatbot: October is a wonderful time for reflection—and apple cider! When you mentioned Fall birthdays, I wondered if you share your birthday with anyone famous or with a historic event.

Person: Well, I always remember that John Lennon would’ve had his birthday just a day after mine. Makes for good music trivia at work! And my own day seems to land right in the sweet spot when Halloween decorations go up everywhere. Kind of fitting for someone who likes a mix of chaos and creativity in the workshop.

Chatbot: That’s a great way to frame it. Do you feel you bring that balance of creativity and order into your kid’s life, too?

Person: I do my best. It’s always a juggling act, but I want him to remember the fun moments—the experiments in the kitchen, the messy science projects, the questionable pizza toppings we try out together. Life’s taught me not to take things for granted. If I can teach him to roll with the punches, maybe he won’t have to go through the same tough lessons I did after splitting up. But who knows—he’s got his mom’s stubborn streak.

Chatbot: Sounds like you’ve found your stride: creating order at work, and bringing playfulness home. Your work involving crushing, mixing, and blending materials must give you a unique perspective on tackling challenges, both at home and on the floor.

Person: Never thought about it that way, but you’re right. My job’s all about breaking things down and putting them together new. Maybe that’s why I’ve been able to pick myself up after things went sideways with my marriage. Takes patience, sometimes brute force, sometimes a gentle touch. And plenty of cleanup at the end, both literally and metaphorically.

Chatbot: You have a remarkable outlook. On the subject of patience—have you ever thought about mentoring any of the younger workers? I’m sure your years of experience could help out someone just getting started.

Person: I do end up showing the ropes to new hires, which I enjoy—sort of pay it forward, since some old-timers helped me out when I was just starting. Some folks treat mixing as grunt work, but guiding someone to get the texture just right actually takes finesse. Plus, you hear some wild stories from the new crowd, keeps things interesting.

Chatbot: Speaking of interesting, did you always know you’d end up working with your hands, or did you dream of doing something else when you were younger?

Person: When I was a kid, sure, I had all the standard dreams. Maybe you’d catch me doodling car engines or pretending I was a scientist with my chemistry set. But honestly, after high school, practical needs won out—earning a paycheck, supporting my family. Didn’t hurt that I’m a bit of a tinkerer. I get a lot of satisfaction out of seeing things take shape thanks to what I do, even if it’s not what I pictured at seventeen.

Chatbot: There’s a special kind of pride in honest, hands-on work—whether it was your childhood dream or not. Has your time combining and refining materials changed how you approach challenges outside the job?

Person: Definitely. I’ve learned to keep at it, even when something looks like a mess. Whether it’s smoothing out a rough batch at work or navigating co-parenting, it’s all about finding the right balance and trusting the process. Sometimes I wish life came with an operator’s manual, but I’ve gotten better at improvising. And reminding myself I survived the “Great Powder Spill of 2019”—if I got through that day, I can get through just about anything.

Chatbot: The Great Powder Spill sounds legendary—hopefully you didn’t end up looking like a ghost! Is there one piece of advice you’d give your younger self, knowing what you know now?

Person: Hmm, I’d probably say: trust in the long game. Things will break and mix and fall apart, but something new will come together if you stick with it. Oh, and wear better ear protection from day one! Not glamorous advice, but good for sanity in a noisy world.

Chatbot: That’s wise advice—both the practical and personal kind. Thank you for sharing your thoughts and experiences; I feel like I’ve learned a lot about resilience and creativity. Is there anything else you’d like to talk about during your break?

Person: Actually, you’ve helped me more than you know. I’ve got a few ideas now that might make tomorrow a bit quieter, and you’ve given me a reason to look at my job a little differently. And who knows—maybe I’ll finally take those old foam scraps and make something useful for the crew. Thanks for the chat. It’s been a good way to hit pause on a busy Tuesday.

Chatbot: My pleasure! If you ever want to bounce around more ideas or just take another breather during your shift, I’m here. Have a great rest of your day—and good luck surviving the afternoon roar!

Person: Thanks! Time to toss on my gloves and get back to it. Catch you next break.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-82 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I’m thinking about upgrading my desktop setup for remote work and programming. Do you have suggestions for a solid dual monitor setup? I code all day so my eyes get tired—any features I should look for?

Chatbot: Absolutely, for intensive coding sessions, having dual monitors can really improve your workflow and reduce eye strain. I recommend looking for monitors with IPS panels for better color consistency, blue light reduction, and generally something at least 24” in size. Do you have any brand preferences or a budget in mind?

Person: Not super brand loyal, but I tend to go for whatever has good reviews and is cost effective. My last pair lasted about four years, so I’m hoping for something sturdy. By the way, I do most of my coding work from my apartment in jersey. I’m also curious about vertical monitors—some of the other devs at work love them for reading code.

Chatbot: Great to know! Jersey can be a bit humid in summer, so make sure to keep your setup ventilated. Vertical monitors are excellent for reviewing long blocks of code, especially if you’re working on Python or Java. Maybe one landscape and one portrait? Have you used any particular text editors or IDEs lately?

Person: Yeah, actually, lately I’ve gotten hooked on VS Code. It’s so customizable and the extensions make my life a lot easier. And I totally agree, portrait mode is a game-changer for looking at files with thousands of lines. Quick sidebar: do people in your 'line of work' also code, or is it more high-level automation?

Chatbot: My “day job” is a bit more on the automation and knowledge management side, but I’m designed to assist with code too. VS Code is super popular among programmers these days. What sorts of projects do you usually work on? Anything fun or just the standard business software stuff?

Person: Bit of both, honestly. At my full-time gig, it’s mostly business process automation—APIs, database scripting, that kind of thing. But on the side, I play around with game prototypes and NLP projects. Nothing too flashy, but it scratches the creative itch. By the way, I finished 12th grade before diving into work. I sometimes wonder if skipping college was the right move, but going straight into tech seems to have worked out.

Chatbot: That’s impressive! Tech is a field where skills and hands-on experience matter a lot, so many people make successful careers without following the traditional college route. Sounds like you’ve built up a strong skill set. Do you ever attend local tech meetups or conferences in jersey?

Person: I did a few times, especially before everything went remote. There’s a pretty active scene in NJ if you know where to look. Met a couple of folks who also identify as Desi—nice to see more south asians getting into the field. There’s a Whatsapp group for Asian Indian devs in nj, so we share job leads and hacks for stuff like taxes or credit.

Chatbot: That community network sounds really valuable. It’s great to find others with similar backgrounds and experiences—shared tips can make a big difference. Given how tech changes so rapidly, those WhatsApp groups likely help you stay connected and up-to-date.

Person: Absolutely. Especially when you’ve only been in the States for about a decade, there’s a lot to navigate. Took a while but I got through all the paperwork for citizenship a few years ago. Now it’s nice not to have to worry about all those visa renewals. I can finally travel without a ton of stress, haha.

Chatbot: I can imagine that must be a relief! Being able to settle down and not have to deal with as much bureaucracy frees up energy for more rewarding things. Have you found adapting to the culture and tech industry in the US to be what you expected?

Person: Somewhat, yeah. The work culture is a bit different from Bangalore, less hierarchy here but more expectation to problem-solve independently. I fit in eventually—my English was decent because of school, and having had a regular high school diploma helped with the transition, even if it wasn’t from here. Now folks treat me like one of their own, especially at hackathons.

Chatbot: That’s really positive! It's encouraging to hear how you’ve adapted and thrived. Do you ever miss aspects of Bangalore, or has jersey started to feel like home?

Person: A little bit of both, honestly. I’ve got family back in India so I miss Diwali celebrations and the food. But NJ has its perks too—close to NYC for all the tech events, plus good Indian groceries in Edison. Sometimes I joke that the east coast is like the 'India corridor,' so not too hard to find what I need.

Chatbot: Sounds like you’ve found ways to blend the best of both worlds! On a practical note, since you mentioned you’re planning upgrades—will you be using your primary bank card for the tech purchases? If so, I can help you double-check for vendor compatibility and card protection benefits.

Person: Yeah, I usually put bigger purchases on my main Visa card. Funny thing, the number starts with four three five seven, then three three two two, the next four are one four one eight, and it wraps up with eight eight oh five. I’m always careful about where I enter those details, especially with so many scams targeting people lately.

Chatbot: That’s a smart approach. Online scams have gotten quite sophisticated, so always use trusted sites and be wary of phishing emails. If you use any sort of payment protection, check whether your card issuer offers virtual card numbers or extra authentication for large purchases. Are you planning to upgrade other peripherals as well—maybe a new keyboard or ergonomic mouse to go with your monitors?

Person: Actually, yes! My current mechanical keyboard is pretty worn out, and I’ve developed a bit of wrist pain from coding. I’m considering an ergonomic split keyboard—heard they help. Budget is a factor since I’m eyeing two monitors and a keyboard, so I have to spread out the upgrades.

Chatbot: That makes sense. You might try searching for sales or bundle deals—sometimes tech stores in jersey offer discounts if you buy multiple items. Also, many manufacturers give student or essential worker discounts; you might check with your employer, since programmers and IT professionals sometimes qualify for special pricing.

Person: Good tip, I’ll look into that. I appreciate the specific advice! Sometimes being plugged into a network of Desis in this field helps a lot, but the broader tech community is a good resource too. Thanks for helping me brainstorm—this’ll make my shopping spree way smoother.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! It’s exciting to plan upgrades, especially when it can boost comfort and productivity. If you have any other questions about optimizing your home setup or secure online shopping, just let me know. Enjoy setting up your new gear!

Person: Thanks! I’ll circle back after some comparison shopping. Have a great day.

Chatbot: You too—happy coding and take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-18 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, are you good for a chat? I’ve got some downtime before the kitchen gets busy again.

Chatbot: Absolutely! I’m always here to chat. What’s on your mind today?

Person: Well, it’s kind of a gray morning, so I was just thinking about how my job keeps me on my toes, even when the weather’s dull. Yesterday we had a big lunch rush, and that always gets me thinking about how I ended up spending so many hours in a kitchen, you know?

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re really passionate about what you do. Have you always worked in the food industry or was it something that developed over time?

Person: Funny thing—working with food is one of those jobs I fell into young. I remember my first gig slicing up ingredients at a deli when I was a teenager. Never thought it’d stick, but here I am, all these years later, still surrounded by cutting boards, prep tables and trays of chopped veggies.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’ve built up a lot of experience. Do you enjoy the pace of the kitchen, or does it sometimes get overwhelming?

Person: The pace is kind of addicting, honestly. There’s nothing like a smooth dinner service with everyone working in sync. Sure, it can get overwhelming, especially when orders are pouring in and everyone is in the weeds. But I think I thrive in that chaos—I’ve always been better at using my hands than my head, if you know what I mean.

Chatbot: That makes sense—some people really excel in hands-on, fast-paced environments. Was there a particular moment that made you realize you belonged in a kitchen?

Person: There’s not really a single moment. I guess it grew on me. School was never my strong suit—I didn’t finish in the usual way like most folks I knew. But working in food prep, there’s a kind of satisfaction in seeing the trays lined up, knowing you put real effort into every dish, even if your name’s never on the menu.

Chatbot: The behind-the-scenes work is definitely underappreciated sometimes! What’s your favorite dish to prepare, if you had to pick one?

Person: Oh man, that’s tough. I get a weird sense of joy from making the perfect sandwich—like, stacking up the cold cuts just right, getting the ratio of mustard to mayo just so. But probably my favorite thing is prepping big batches of mashed potatoes for holiday meals. The repetition is almost relaxing, you know? Plus, everyone’s happy when they see a mountain of real mashed potatoes, not that instant stuff.

Chatbot: Mashed potatoes are definitely a crowd-pleaser! If you could have any restaurant experience in the world, where would you want to eat or work for a day?

Person: I think it’d be cool to work a shift at some classic New York diner. My family always loved that kind of place growing up. Somewhere with chrome stools, loads of pie, hardworking folks behind the counter. It would be like stepping into one of those old movies my parents loved.

Chatbot: That sounds like a great experience. You mentioned your family—did they encourage your path into your current work, or was it something you found on your own?

Person: Well, my folks were both practical people. My dad especially valued getting your hands dirty, hard work over fancy book learning. I guess I took after him in that sense. School wasn’t my thing, but I knew I had to earn my own way somehow. Food jobs were always available if you were willing to put in the labor.

Chatbot: Sounds like your upbringing shaped your work ethic quite a bit. Do you keep in touch with your family often?

Person: Yeah, my ma lives out in a little town not too far from where I grew up. She still cooks the old recipes, a lot of which came over from her side—mostly stews and casseroles, good hearty stick-to-your-ribs stuff. I go out there for certain holidays. Always reminds me where I come from.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful. Family recipes really do connect us to the past. Do you ever share those dishes at work, or do you keep them in the family?

Person: Every so often, I’ll bring in some leftovers for the crew—meatloaf or apple crisp, things like that. Nothing too fancy. Mostly the younger folks are more interested in takeout, but a few of the old-timers always appreciate homemade food.

Chatbot: I bet those dishes are a hit with your coworkers. You seem to have a lot of pride in your roots and your background. Are there any traditions you keep up every year?

Person: I usually make a point of baking a pie for Thanksgiving and helping out at the local VFW’s holiday meal in the fall. They do this big dinner for veterans and folks who might not have anywhere else to go. I always try to be there to peel potatoes or carve turkeys.

Chatbot: That’s very generous of you. It sounds like you build strong connections with your community. Do you ever look back and think about taking a different path—maybe going back to school or learning a new trade?

Person: Sometimes I wonder what it would’ve been like if I’d stuck out high school all the way, maybe gone off to college. But the truth is, I wasn’t much of a student. I finished up through a program later on so I wouldn’t be held back from getting jobs. But books and tests never really fit me. I prefer work I can see the results of with my own eyes, right there in front of me.

Chatbot: That’s a valuable kind of work, and it sounds like you found where you belong. What do you do to relax outside of work?

Person: I’m a simple guy. After a long shift, I like to head home, maybe catch a game on TV, polish up my old Chevy in the driveway, or just have a beer on the porch and watch the leaves come down—especially this time of year. Simple pleasures, you know?

Chatbot: That sounds very peaceful. Do you have any hobbies or interests outside of cars and sports?

Person: I like a good fishing trip when I can swing it, though I don’t get out as much as I used to. Sometimes I’ll tinker with recipes, trying out new spice mixes, even if I don’t have the money for fancy ingredients. I guess I just like making things with my hands.

Chatbot: It seems like being hands-on and crafty comes naturally to you. Has cooking always been a “men’s game” in your family, or did you learn from different role models?

Person: Now that’s a good question. At home, my mom ran the kitchen, for sure—but my old man could grill like no other, and he always taught me to keep a close eye on the steaks. In the restaurant world, I’ve worked with all sorts, but I never felt out of place in the back of house, even when I was the only guy working prep. We always joked the kitchen is an equal opportunity battlefield once the orders start coming in.

Chatbot: That’s a great perspective. Out of curiosity, is there a time of year at work that feels the most hectic or memorable for you?

Person: Oh, for sure—October’s always nuts. Something about the weather changing, sports seasons kicking off, and folks coming in for hearty meals. Plus, I usually get stuck with double shifts around that time since half the crew wants days off near Halloween, and I never mind working around then.

Chatbot: Is there something about October you especially like, aside from the busy season at work?

Person: It’s got a special place for me—autumn’s always felt like a fresh start. Plus, you can’t beat the smell of leaves and the bite in the air. And, well, every year there’s always that one weekend mid-month when my friends drag me out for birthday beers. They’ve never let me forget I was born when the fall colors are at their best. Hard to believe I’ll hit the big four-five this year!

Chatbot: Happy early birthday! That’s a milestone worth celebrating. Do you have any big plans for your 45th?

Person: Thanks! I keep it low-key, usually. Some years I’ll get together with the crew from work for wings and a game, or just visit my folks for a home-cooked meal. I remember telling everyone I was entering my “midlife” when I turned 40, but honestly, not much changes. Still chopping veggies, still listening to classic rock on my breaks.

Chatbot: Sounds like you know how to find joy in the little things. Speaking of classic rock, do you have a favorite band or artist you always turn to?

Person: Springsteen’s always a solid pick, but I’m a sucker for old Journey and a bit of Tom Petty. Grew up with that stuff playing in the kitchen whenever my mom was baking. Some things don’t change.

Chatbot: Those are timeless choices. Do you ever cook to music at work, or is it all business during kitchen hours?

Person: It depends on the boss, honestly. Some days, someone sneaks a radio into the back and you’ll hear Lynyrd Skynyrd or Seger echoing off the walk-in. Usually though, it’s the sound of knives and sizzling pans more than anything. The guys I work with are always joking and telling old stories, especially during the prep shift before we open.

Chatbot: That must keep the mood light. Do you find you have more in common with some coworkers than others?

Person: Yeah, for sure. I get along best with the folks who came up blue collar like me, or the ones who’ve got a practical streak. To be honest, sometimes I feel a little out of place with the younger staff—they’re all talking about what college they’re applying to, what degrees they want. Makes me realize I took a different road, but I’m not sorry for it.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’ve got a lot of pride in your journey. If you could give advice to someone starting out in your field, what would it be?

Person: Show up on time, keep your head down, and don’t be afraid to scrub the floors or chop onions. Work is work, and a job well done is its own reward—no matter your background. Doesn’t matter if you have a bunch of letters after your name or not.

Chatbot: That’s sage advice. Thinking about where you started to where you are now, what do you think has changed the most over the years?

Person: Honestly, kitchens have changed a lot. More gadgets, less patience. When I started, you had to memorize everything and pay your dues for years before you got to touch the grill. Now, some folks walk in with their culinary degrees and want to run before they can walk. But the real work—the prep, the long hours, the teamwork—that’s the same as it always was. And for me, that’s what counts.

Chatbot: That’s a valuable perspective. Out of curiosity, does your heritage influence your approach to food at all, or is it more about the environment you grew up in?

Person: It’s definitely a mix. Grew up in a family with roots back to the old countries of Europe—lots of heavy food, meat and potatoes, casseroles. Nothing too exotic, just solid comfort food. My grandparents came through Ellis Island, and my ma always joked our family’s main spices were salt and pepper.

Chatbot: That kind of heritage brings a unique perspective to the table. Speaking of family, do you have any stories or memories that stick with you from your early days?

Person: I remember as a kid, helping my granddad split firewood before dinner, then washing up and sitting down to a table full of food—roasts, boiled potatoes, rolls slathered with butter. He was a stubborn old guy, big on tradition, but always had a soft spot for homemade pie. I guess that sense of hard work and appreciation for simple meals stuck with me.

Chatbot: Those are memories to treasure. What would you say keeps you motivated day in and day out?

Person: For me, it’s knowing that I’ve earned my keep with my own two hands. There’s pride in seeing empty plates come back from the dining room. Maybe I’ll never win a James Beard or run my own place, but if folks leave fed and happy, that’s enough for me. Plus, supporting my ma, keeping the lights on, and sticking by my friends—that makes all the long days worth it.

Chatbot: It’s clear you value diligence, loyalty, and tradition a lot. Is there anything you’re looking forward to in the coming year, now that you’re marking another birthday?

Person: I’m hoping to take a road trip out to the mountains before winter hits. Maybe try my hand at fly fishing, see new places I’ve only seen in magazines. And who knows—maybe I’ll finally get around to fixing up that corner of the garage I’ve been ignoring for ages. I’m not a man of big dreams, but I do like a project.

Chatbot: That sounds like a wonderful way to celebrate turning 45 and to recharge after the busy season. If you could share one life lesson you’ve learned from your years in the kitchen, what would it be?

Person: I’d say patience, definitely. Nothing good comes from rushing—food or life. Take time to do things right, listen to people, and don’t sweat the small stuff. And always use sharp knives.

Chatbot: Excellent advice. Thank you for sharing your story with me today. I hope your birthday celebration is filled with good food and great company!

Person: Appreciate that. Thanks for the chat—it’s nice to take a breather and look back sometimes. Now, I better get my hands washed and back to work before the lunch crowd rolls in.

Chatbot: Have a great shift, and an even better birthday. I’m here whenever you want to talk again!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_113 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Magnetic pressure

In physics, magnetic pressure is an energy density associated with a magnetic field. In SI units, the energy density  of a magnetic field with strength  can be expressed as

where  is the vacuum permeability.

Any magnetic field has an associated magnetic pressure contained by the boundary conditions on the field. It is identical to any other physical pressure except that it is carried by the magnetic field rather than (in the case of a gas) by the kinetic energy of gas molecules. A gradient in field strength causes a force due to the magnetic pressure gradient called the magnetic pressure force.

Mathematical statement
In SI units, the magnetic pressure  in a magnetic field of strength  is

where  is the vacuum permeability and  has units of energy density.

Magnetic pressure force
In ideal magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) the magnetic pressure force in an electrically conducting fluid with a bulk plasma velocity field , current density , mass density , magnetic field , and plasma pressure  can be derived from the Cauchy momentum equation:

where the first term on the right hand side represents the Lorentz force and the second term represents pressure gradient forces. The Lorentz force can be expanded using Ampère's law, , and the vector identity

to give

where the first term on the right hand side is the magnetic tension and the second term is the magnetic pressure force.

Magnetic tension and pressure are both implicitly included in the Maxwell stress tensor. Terms representing these two forces are present along the main diagonal where they act on differential area elements normal to the corresponding axis.

Wire loops
The magnetic pressure force is readily observed in an unsupported loop of wire. If an electric current passes through the loop, the wire serves as an electromagnet, such that the magnetic field strength inside the loop is much greater than the field strength just outside the loop.  This gradient in field strength gives rise to a magnetic pressure force that tends to stretch the wire uniformly outward.  If enough current travels through the wire, the loop of wire will form a circle. At even higher currents, the magnetic pressure can create tensile stress that exceeds the tensile strength of the wire, causing it to fracture, or even explosively fragment. Thus, management of magnetic pressure is a significant challenge in the design of ultrastrong electromagnets.

The force (in cgs)  exerted on a coil by its own current is

where Y is the internal inductance of the coil, defined by the distribution of current. Y is 0 for high frequency currents carried mostly by the outer surface of the conductor, and 0.25 for DC currents distributed evenly throughout the conductor. See inductance for more information.

Interplay between magnetic pressure and ordinary gas pressure is important to magnetohydrodynamics and plasma physics. Magnetic pressure can also be used to propel projectiles; this is the operating principle of a railgun.

Force-free fields

When all electric currents present in a conducting fluid are parallel to the magnetic field, the magnetic pressure gradient and magnetic tension force are balanced, and the Lorentz force vanishes. If non-magnetic forces are also neglected, the field configuration is referred to as force-free. Furthermore, if the current density is zero, the magnetic field is the gradient of a magnetic scalar potential, and the field is subsequently referred to as potential.

See also
 Magnetic tension force
 Maxwell stress tensor
 Electromagnetically induced acoustic noise and vibration
 Alfvén wave

References 

Plasma parameters
Electromagnetism
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-93 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, I’m feeling pretty reflective today. Just hit a bit of a milestone at work, and it’s making me think about how life keeps moving along. Ever notice how the years just speed by as you get older?

Chatbot: Absolutely, it’s a common feeling—especially when you reach milestones or anniversaries. Congratulations on your achievement at work! If you don’t mind sharing, what was the milestone?

Person: Thanks! It’s been thirty years since I took my first job with the county. Feels strange to say that out loud, actually! I remember walking into the municipal building back in the 80s, feeling completely out of my depth. Time flies.

Chatbot: That’s quite an accomplishment, dedicating decades to your profession. What field do you work in, if you’re comfortable telling me?

Person: Sure, it’s not anything glamorous—just a steady job in civil administration. Dealing with property records, helping folks with paperwork, that sort of thing. “Bureaucratic wrangler,” as my friends like to joke. But it pays the bills and keeps me engaged.

Chatbot: It sounds like rewarding work, especially if you’ve been able to help your community. Since you mentioned the 1980s, you must have seen a lot of changes in both technology and the workplace.

Person: Oh wow, yes. When I started, we did everything with typewriters and carbon copies. Fax machines were high tech! Now I’m trying to keep up with software updates every other week. I’ve gotten better with computers over the years, though—I even convinced some of my younger colleagues I used to code on punch cards, just to mess with them.

Chatbot: That’s a great way to keep a sense of humor about it! Do you enjoy working with new technologies, or do you prefer the older ways?

Person: Truthfully, a bit of both. I like being able to find information quickly, but when systems go down, I miss paper files. Luckily, I can still read my own cursive, which is more than I can say for the next generation. Speaking of which, they always want to know about “the olden days,” and I tell them about rotary phones and when Walter Mondale was on bumper stickers everywhere.

Chatbot: That’s a great way to keep the younger crowd entertained! Do you have any favorite stories from those early days at work?

Person: There was this one winter when a blizzard shut down the city for nearly a week, and the only folks in the office were the old timers and me. We kept things running with coffee and stories until the plows finally came through. Funny, I still keep an emergency blanket in my desk—just in case. That’s Michigan for you.

Chatbot: Michigan winters are legendary! Do you live near the Great Lakes?

Person: Not far from Lake Huron. You can almost taste the water in the air some mornings, especially when the snow starts falling. For some folks, the cold is a burden, but I find it comforting. And I wouldn’t trade an autumn here for anywhere else—those bright reds and golds in the trees, they just can’t be beat.

Chatbot: That sounds beautiful. Did you grow up in Michigan as well, or did you settle there later?

Person: I’ve been here pretty much all my life. My mother tells me I took my first steps on icy linoleum while she was heating fry bread on the stove. Sometimes I wonder what it’d be like to live elsewhere, but every time I travel, I end up craving home.

Chatbot: Home has a way of calling us back. Do you have family in the area?

Person: Some, but we’re kind of spread out now. My cousin works up in Sault Ste. Marie. She’s the one who gets the family together every summer for powwow season. It’s almost like a little reunion—traditional dancing, singing, the works. I always look forward to catching up over bison stew and hearing about the old stories.

Chatbot: That sounds like a lively and meaningful tradition. Are there any stories in particular that you look forward to each year?

Person: Definitely. My uncle likes to tell the family about our ancestor who walked all the way from the Dakotas to Michigan, stopping at each river to give thanks. Every year, the journey seems a little longer and the hardships a little tougher—he has a way of telling it that makes us all proud. And honestly, it feels special to think how our roots stretch across such a wide land.

Chatbot: It’s wonderful to be connected to both place and heritage. Are there any customs or activities from your background that you practice year-round, or is it mostly during the summer gatherings?

Person: A mix, I’d say. I burn sage when I need some clarity, and sometimes I’ll sing a lullaby I learned from my grandma—though it embarrasses my nephew. There are drum circles that meet even in winter, usually in someone’s basement when it’s too cold to be outside. It keeps the spirit alive, even under the snow.

Chatbot: That’s really inspiring. Has your community changed much over the years?

Person: Some things have changed, yes. When I was a child, there were fewer people who spoke Dakota or Lakota, but now the language classes are picking up again. A friend of mine just started an afterschool group for kids, teaching them to make dreamcatchers and beadwork. I try to help out when my work schedule allows, but office life gets hectic.

Chatbot: It’s great that you’re able to contribute when you can. Speaking of work, do you enjoy having a regular routine, or do you sometimes wish for something different?

Person: Most days, I like the predictability. I’ve never been a fan of surprises—maybe that’s why I’m still in the same job after so many years! I’ll admit, there are moments when I wonder what it would have been like to take a big leap, move out West, or start a business. But I like having my own desk, steady hours, a place to be every weekday.

Chatbot: Routine can bring a sense of stability and peace. Do you spend your evenings winding down at home, or do you enjoy going out?

Person: I’m a homebody most weeknights. Love a cup of tea with a book or a little TV. I have a neighbor who stops by now and then for a game of dominoes, but otherwise, it’s just me and my cat—she tolerates me, as long as I feed her on time. Socializing happens more on weekends, at the local center or church dinners.

Chatbot: Do you enjoy reading? Any favorite authors or books?

Person: I grew up on Louise Erdrich and Sherman Alexie—stories that feel close to home, you know? Lately, I’ve been reading more nonfiction, histories and memoirs. There’s something about learning how others made their way in the world that I find comforting, especially as I get older. It makes me think about how life branches out in unexpected directions.

Chatbot: It’s always fascinating to see how different people experience life. Would you say your life has gone the way you expected, or have there been surprises along the way?

Person: I think most people would be surprised to learn how much you can build on your own. I never got around to settling down with anyone—life just pulled me in different directions, I suppose. My cousins tease me about being “the last single one at the table,” but honestly, it doesn’t sting. I’ve built a good life, filled it with friends, family moments, and work I can be proud of.

Chatbot: There’s a lot of value in forging your own path. Do you feel content with where you are in life?

Person: For the most part, yes. Of course, there are days I wish I’d traveled more, or taken a chance on love when it came knocking. But I try not to dwell on what’s passed. Nowadays, I find satisfaction in small things—finishing a hard day’s work, helping someone at the office, seeing my cousin’s kids chasing fireflies in the yard.

Chatbot: That’s a heartwarming perspective. Earlier, you mentioned that you recently celebrated a work milestone. Did you do anything special to mark the occasion?

Person: The department chipped in for a cake and some laughs—I got “Most Reliable” on a silly certificate. I had a quiet meal at home afterward, just me and my crossword puzzles. Funny thing, the date fell right around a time a lot of people make jokes about hope and change—reminds me of all those banners from years ago.

Chatbot: That sounds like a fitting way to celebrate. Out of curiosity, do you enjoy celebrating your birthday, or do you prefer low-key occasions?

Person: I’ve always enjoyed my birthday, mostly because it comes at a time when people are tired of winter and ready for something to break up the chill. When I was a kid, my mom would bundle me in about four layers to go sledding—even if the snow was up to my knees, we’d make it happen. It was always right after people had recovered from the holiday lull. The days are still short, but there’s a glimmer of hope that spring isn’t so far away.

Chatbot: That must make for some cozy celebrations. Does your birthday usually land on a weekday, or is it unpredictable?

Person: It jumps around—a few years ago it was a Sunday, the next was a Thursday, and I remember one year it was on a Saturday and we went ice fishing. It’s always after the big January rush, once people are getting back to routine. Kind of nice, because the world slows down for a bit, right before all the hearts and flowers show up in store windows.

Chatbot: It sounds like it falls in late January, just before the run-up to Valentine’s Day. That’s a nice time to celebrate.

Person: You guessed it. I always thought having a birthday when January is winding down is a blessing—gives people an excuse to gather when they might not otherwise.

Chatbot: That does sound nice! May I ask, do you have any birthday traditions?

Person: My mom always made wild rice and blueberry pudding, even when I was little. Some years we’d have walleye if she could find it. Now, I’ll bake myself something sweet and try to take a day off work if I can swing it. It doesn’t always work out, since the office is busiest right after the new year, but I give it a shot.

Chatbot: It sounds like celebrating your birthday brings up fond memories every year. You mentioned celebrating thirty years at work earlier. Are you considering retirement anytime soon, or do you think you’ll keep going awhile longer?

Person: I’m still a ways off from retirement, but I get asked that a lot lately. I guess when you’re closer to your threescore-and-ten, people start wondering about your plans! For now, as long as I can make my way through another stack of paperwork, I’ll keep coming in.

Chatbot: Your commitment is admirable. When you finally do retire, do you have any plans or dreams for how you’d like to spend your days?

Person: I’d love to travel—or at least take a good long trip around the Upper Peninsula, see more of the state. Maybe spend time volunteering at the local heritage center, teaching the next batch how to make star quilts or sing those old Dakota hymns. I think passing on knowledge is important, especially as the years creep up.

Chatbot: That sounds like a fulfilling way to spend your time after work life. Are there any specific places in Michigan you’d like to visit that you haven’t seen yet?

Person: I never made it to Isle Royale, can you believe it? Every year I tell myself this will be the year, but then work picks up and I get stuck behind my desk again. Maybe once spring rolls around and the ice is off the lakes, I’ll finally make the trip.

Chatbot: It’s never too late to explore! Going back to your family gatherings, you mentioned powwows and traditional foods. Are you involved in planning these events, or do you mostly attend as a guest?

Person: Mostly a guest these days, but they always rope me into something—helping set up tables, making sure the singers have enough coffee, rounding up the little ones for the dance circle. There’s a comfort in seeing familiar faces, sharing jokes that are older than I am, hearing “you haven’t changed a bit!” even when you know you have.

Chatbot: That sense of community is invaluable. Do you ever teach the children in your family about family history or traditions?

Person: All the time. They love hearing about when I was their age—especially how we played stickball in the schoolyard, or how my grandma could find wild onions just by the smell. I try to share the language when I can, though I’m no expert. The kids pick it up surprisingly fast when it’s part of a story or song.

Chatbot: That’s an important legacy to pass on. Has being part of your community influenced your perspective on life overall?

Person: Absolutely. There’s a strong sense of connection—with each other, with the land, with the past. I think that’s shaped who I am, made me value belonging over having things. It keeps me grounded, even when the world feels unsettled.

Chatbot: It’s heartwarming to hear how anchored you feel in your roots and your work. Earlier you mentioned being the “last single one at the table.” Would you say that being single has influenced your life path?

Person: In some ways, yes. I’ve had more freedom to pick up and visit relatives or work late when duty calls. And I’ve gotten used to doing things my own way. Some folks rush to “settle down,” but I guess I was always content to let life unfold. No one to argue with over the TV remote, at least!

Chatbot: Freedom can be its own reward. Are there any hobbies or activities you wish you had more time for these days?

Person: I’ve always wanted to learn to play the flute properly. My uncle tried to teach me as a kid, but office hours and chores always got in the way. Maybe I’ll pick it up again one of these winters—when the lake is frozen and the nights stretch on forever.

Chatbot: That sounds lovely, especially during a quiet Michigan winter evening. Are there any annual events or ceremonies in your area that you look forward to every year?

Person: Besides powwows, there’s a winter storytelling festival at the community center. Elders and kids gather, the fire crackles, and someone always brings hot cider. Stories get swapped in Dakota and English, and sometimes there’s a new one to add to the collection. It’s one of my favorite nights of the year.

Chatbot: That sounds magical. Do you ever tell a story at the festival?

Person: I have, once or twice. Mostly stories I heard from my grandma—she used to say stories keep the cold from getting into your bones. The kids like the animal tales best, especially the ones with trickster. Keeps the old wisdom alive, and the little ones giggling.

Chatbot: Passing on stories is a gift. If you could give one piece of advice to your younger self, what would it be?

Person: Take more chances. Don’t be afraid to step outside your comfort zone, even if it means risking a little embarrassment. And keep a journal—there’s so much you’ll want to remember later that you think you’ll never forget now.

Chatbot: Wise words indeed. Thank you for sharing so much of your life and thoughts with me today.

Person: Thank you for listening. Sometimes it’s nice to be heard—makes the years feel a bit lighter.

Chatbot: It’s been a pleasure. If you ever feel like sharing more, I’ll be here.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-83 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! How can I help you today?

Patient: I've been feeling really tired lately, almost all the time. I decided to come in for a check-up just to make sure it's nothing serious.

Doctor: That’s a good idea. When did you first start feeling this fatigue?

Patient: I’d say it’s been gradually getting worse over the past two or three months. Some days are better than others, but there’s a general sense of being worn out.

Doctor: Have you noticed any other symptoms? Things like weight changes, trouble sleeping, or any pain?

Patient: I haven’t lost or gained much weight, but I do find myself having trouble sleeping through the night. Sometimes I wake up and can’t get back to sleep for hours.

Doctor: I see. Any trouble concentrating or changes in mood?

Patient: Yeah, actually. I’ve been feeling more down than usual, I guess. It’s been a rough year, though, so I suppose that’s normal. I’m separated from my spouse right now, which has been a big adjustment.

Doctor: That can definitely have an effect on mood and energy. I’m glad you brought it up. Are you currently working?

Patient: No, I am unemployed at the moment. I lost my job a few months ago, and I’m still looking for something, but it’s been tough.

Doctor: I understand. Changes in work and relationships can really impact your mental and physical health. Are you experiencing any anxiety or panic attacks?

Patient: Mostly just a lot of worry, but I haven’t had panic attacks. I worry about finances, too. I want to mention my insurance card expired, but if needed, I have a credit card—my credit card number is 3522292706537947—if there are any charges for today’s visit.

Doctor: Thank you for letting me know. We’ll pass that information to the billing department if anything needs to be processed. It’s important that we take care of your health first.

Patient: Thanks, doctor. I should also tell you my date of birth is 28 August 1970, in case you need it for your records.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. I’ll make sure your chart is updated. Now, do you have any chronic conditions, or are you taking any medications regularly?

Patient: Nope, I’m not on any regular medications right now. I don’t have any big health problems diagnosed previously. I was last in for a check-up about a year and a half ago.

Doctor: Okay. Any family history of diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart disease?

Patient: My father had high blood pressure, and my mother was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes a few years before she passed away. Besides that, nothing that I know of.

Doctor: Good to know. Can I ask about substance use? Do you smoke, drink alcohol, or use recreational drugs?

Patient: I quit smoking about four years ago. I don’t really drink—maybe a glass of wine on a special occasion. No recreational drugs.

Doctor: That’s great. Let’s also double-check your demographic information to make sure we have everything correct. Could you please confirm your citizenship status?

Patient: Sure, I am a US citizen by naturalization. I became a citizen about twenty years ago.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming. And just to confirm for the record, what race would you like us to list on your chart?

Patient: My race is some other race. It’s not one of the typical categories, but that’s what I usually mark.

Doctor: We can ensure that’s accurately reflected. Do you have anyone living with you at home to help out right now, or do you live alone?

Patient: I live on my own at the moment. Since separating from my spouse, I’ve been handling things by myself.

Doctor: That can be a lot to manage. Sometimes isolation can make fatigue and low mood worse. Do you have friends or family nearby for support?

Patient: I have a few friends in town, and I talk to my sister on the phone from time to time, but I mostly keep to myself now.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing that with me. Given your recent experiences and current stressors, it makes sense you’re feeling this way. We should run a few blood tests today—just to rule out anemia, thyroid issues, or any nutritional deficiencies. Does that sound alright?

Patient: Yes, that’s fine. I’d like to know if there’s a physical cause. I worry it all might just be stress, but it would be good to check.

Doctor: Absolutely. Addressing both physical and emotional health is important. I’d also like to screen you for depression and anxiety, just to see if we can get a better sense of how your mood is affecting your daily life.

Patient: That makes sense to me. I’d appreciate any help with that.

Doctor: Great. I’ll hand you some brief questionnaires in a moment. Is there anything else on your mind—other symptoms or issues you want to discuss?

Patient: Actually, one more thing—I’ve been getting headaches more often, but they’re not severe. I don’t usually take anything for them.

Doctor: How often would you say you get these headaches, and where do you typically feel the pain?

Patient: Maybe two or three times a week. It’s usually a dull ache across my forehead.

Doctor: Any nausea, vision changes, or sensitivity to light with these headaches?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Just annoying, mostly.

Doctor: Based on what you’ve told me, these sound like tension or stress headaches, which may be linked to your mood and recent life events. We’ll keep monitoring them. If they get worse, let me know right away.

Patient: Will do. Thanks for listening, doctor.

Doctor: Of course—thank you for being open with me. We’ll take your blood today, and I’ll call you within a week with results. Remember, you can always reach me if your symptoms change or if you have any questions. We’ll also make sure your billing is handled with the credit card provided.

Patient: That works, thank you. I’ll look out for your call.

Doctor: Take care, and don’t hesitate to get in touch if you need anything at all.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_84 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Lists of Pakistani films

The following pages for each decade list films produced in Pakistan by year of release.

Pre-1950
List of Pakistani films before 1950

1950s
List of Pakistani films of 1950
List of Pakistani films of 1951 
List of Pakistani films of 1952
List of Pakistani films of 1953
List of Pakistani films of 1954
List of Pakistani films of 1955
List of Pakistani films of 1956
List of Pakistani films of 1957
List of Pakistani films of 1958
List of Pakistani films of 1959

1960s
List of Pakistani films of 1960
List of Pakistani films of 1961
List of Pakistani films of 1962
List of Pakistani films of 1963
List of Pakistani films of 1964
List of Pakistani films of 1965
List of Pakistani films of 1966
List of Pakistani films of 1967
List of Pakistani films of 1968
List of Pakistani films of 1969

1970s
List of Pakistani films of 1970
List of Pakistani films of 1971
List of Pakistani films of 1972
List of Pakistani films of 1973
List of Pakistani films of 1974
List of Pakistani films of 1975
List of Pakistani films of 1976
List of Pakistani films of 1977
List of Pakistani films of 1978
List of Pakistani films of 1979

1980s
List of Pakistani films of 1980
List of Pakistani films of 1981
List of Pakistani films of 1982
List of Pakistani films of 1983
List of Pakistani films of 1984
List of Pakistani films of 1985
List of Pakistani films of 1986
List of Pakistani films of 1987
List of Pakistani films of 1988
List of Pakistani films of 1989

1990s
List of Pakistani films of 1990
List of Pakistani films of 1991
List of Pakistani films of 1992
List of Pakistani films of 1993
List of Pakistani films of 1994
List of Pakistani films of 1995
List of Pakistani films of 1996
List of Pakistani films of 1997
List of Pakistani films of 1998
List of Pakistani films of 1999

2000s
List of Pakistani films of 2000
List of Pakistani films of 2001
List of Pakistani films of 2002
List of Pakistani films of 2003
List of Pakistani films of 2004
List of Pakistani films of 2005
List of Pakistani films of 2006
List of Pakistani films of 2007
List of Pakistani films of 2008
List of Pakistani films of 2009

2010s
 List of Pakistani films of 2010
 List of Pakistani films of 2011
 List of Pakistani films of 2012
 List of Pakistani films of 2013
 List of Pakistani films of 2014
 List of Pakistani films of 2015
 List of Pakistani films of 2016
 List of Pakistani films of 2017
 List of Pakistani films of 2018
 List of Pakistani films of 2019

2020s
 List of Pakistani films of 2020
 List of Pakistani films of 2021
 List of Pakistani films of 2022
 List of Pakistani films of 2023

See also 
 Cinema of Pakistan
 List of Pakistani Punjabi-language films
 List of Pashto-language films
 List of Sindhi-language films
 List of Pakistani animated films
 List of highest-grossing Pakistani films
 List of highest-grossing films in Pakistan
 List of years in Pakistan
 List of years in Pakistani television

External links
 Search Pakistani film - IMDB.com


[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_20 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bay leaf

The bay leaf is an aromatic leaf commonly used as a herb in cooking. It can be used whole, either dried or fresh, in which case it is removed from the dish before consumption, or less commonly used in ground form. The flavor that a bay leaf imparts to a dish has not been universally agreed upon, but most agree it is a subtle addition.

Bay leaves come from various plants and are used for their distinctive flavor and fragrance. The most common source is the bay laurel (Laurus nobilis). Other types include California bay laurel, Indian bay leaf, West Indian bay laurel, and Mexican bay laurel. Bay leaves contain essential oils, such as eucalyptol, terpenes, and methyleugenol, which contribute to their taste and aroma.

Bay leaves are used in various cuisines around the world, including Indian,  Filipino, European, and Caribbean. They are typically used in soups, stews, meat, seafood, and vegetable dishes. The leaves should be removed from the cooked food before eating as they can be abrasive in the digestive tract.

Bay leaves are used as an insect repellent in pantries and as an active ingredient in killing jars for entomology. In Eastern Orthodoxy liturgy, they are used to symbolize Jesus' destruction of Hades and freeing of the dead.

While some visually similar plants have poisonous leaves, bay leaves are not toxic and can be eaten without harm. However, they remain stiff even after cooking and may pose a choking hazard or cause harm to the digestive tract if swallowed whole or in large pieces. Canadian food and drug regulations set specific standards for bay leaves, including limits on ash content, moisture levels, and essential oil content.

Sources 
Bay leaves come from several plants, such as:
 Bay laurel (Laurus nobilis, Lauraceae). Fresh or dried bay leaves are used in cooking for their distinctive flavour and fragrance. The leaves should be removed from the cooked food before eating (see safety section below). The leaves are often used to flavour soups, stews, braises and pâtés in many countries. The fresh leaves are very mild and do not develop their full flavour until several weeks after picking and drying.
 California bay leaf. The leaf of the California bay tree (Umbellularia californica, Lauraceae), also known as California laurel, Oregon myrtle, and pepperwood, is similar to the Mediterranean bay laurel but contains the toxin umbellulone, which can cause methemoglobinemia.
 Indian bay leaf or malabathrum (Cinnamomum tamala, Lauraceae) differs from bay laurel leaves, which are shorter and light- to medium-green in colour, with one large vein down the length of the leaf. Indian bay leaves are about twice as long and wider, usually olive green in colour, and have three veins running the length of the leaf. Culinarily, Indian bay leaves are quite different, having a fragrance and taste similar to cinnamon (cassia) bark, but milder.
 Indonesian bay leaf or Indonesian laurel (salam leaf, Syzygium polyanthum, Myrtaceae) is not commonly found outside Indonesia; this herb is applied to meat and, less often, to rice and to vegetables.
 West Indian bay leaf, the leaf of the West Indian bay tree (Pimenta racemosa, Myrtaceae) is used culinarily (especially in Caribbean cuisine) and to produce the cologne called bay rum.
 Mexican bay leaf (Litsea glaucescens, Lauraceae).

Chemical constituents
The leaves of the European / Mediterranean plant Laurus nobilis contain about 1.3% essential oils (ol. lauri folii), consisting of 45% eucalyptol, 12% other terpenes, 8-12% terpinyl acetate, 3–4% sesquiterpenes, 3% methyleugenol, and other α- and β-pinenes, phellandrene, linalool, geraniol, terpineol, and also contain lauric acid.

Taste and aroma
If eaten whole, Laurus nobilis bay leaves are pungent and have a sharp, bitter taste. As with many spices and flavourings, the fragrance of the bay leaf is more noticeable than its taste. When the leaf is dried, the aroma is herbal, slightly floral, and somewhat similar to oregano and thyme....
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_255 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Small intestine cancer

Small intestine cancer starts when cells in the small intestine start to grow out of control. The small intestine is the largest part of the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract), which processes food for energy and rids the body of solid waste. The small intestine is not as common as other cancers of the GI tract such as colon, rectal, stomach, and esophageal cancers in the United States. They account for fewer than 1 in 10 cancers in the GI tract, and fewer than 1 in 100 cancers overall. (American Cancer Society, 2023)

Small intestine cancer can be subdivided into duodenal cancer (the first part of the small intestine) and cancer of the jejunum and ileum (the latter two parts of the small intestine). Duodenal cancer has more in common with stomach cancer, while cancer of the jejunum and ileum have more in common with colorectal cancer. Five-year survival rates are 65%.

Experts believe that small intestine cancer develops much like colorectal cancer. It first begins as a small growth on the inner lining of the intestine (polyp), which over time becomes cancer. (American Cancer Society, 2023)

Approximately 50% of adenomas of the small intestine arise in the duodenum even though this location comprises only 4% of the length of the small intestine.  These adenomas occur mainly close to the ampulla of Vater, the outlet of the common bile duct from which bile acids are released. This area is also closely associated with the pancreas, so they are treated as pancreatic cancer.

The small intestine works by mixing food and gastric juices into a thick fluid in the stomach and then emptied into the small intestine. It then continues to break down and absorb the nutrients. Although it is referred to as the small intestine, it is the longest section of the GI tract being approximately 20 feet long. The length of the small intestine comprises 75% of the length of the entire gastrointestinal tract

There are three parts of the small intestine. The duodenum is the 1st section of small intestine and only about a foot long. The jejunum and ileum make up most of the small intestine. Most of the nutrients in food are absorbed into the bloodstream in these two parts. (American Cancer Society, 2023)

Histopathologic types

Subtypes of small intestine cancer include:
 Adenocarcinoma-This cancer begins in the gland cells that line the inside of the intestine. Adenocarcinomas account for about 1 in 3 small intestine cancers.
 Gastrointestinal stromal tumor-This type of cancer starts in connective tissues. The most common sarcoma in the intestine are gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs)
 Lymphoma-These cancers start in lymphocytes.
 Carcinoid tumors of the midgut-This is a type of neuroendocrine tumor (NET). They tend to be slow growing and are the most common type of small intestine tumor. (American Cancer Society, 2023)
Most small intestine cancers (especially adenocarcinomas) develop in the duodenum. Cancers developed in the duodenum are often found at the ampulla of Vater. (American Cancer Society, 2023)

Risk factors

Risk factors for small intestine cancer include:

 Age: Cancer risk increases with age. The average age diagnosis is 65.(Cleveland Clinic, 2022)
 Race: In the U.S., small intestine cancer is slightly more common among people who identify as African Americans. Although lymphoma is more common among people who identify as white.(Cleveland Clinic, 2022)
 HIV/AIDS- treatments like radiation therapy may weaken your immune system and make you more susceptible to small intestine cancer. Drugs that suppress your immune system may also increase your risk.(Cleveland Clinic, 2022)
 Sex: Males are 25% more likely to develop the disease.(Cleveland Clinic, 2022)
 Diet: Various research has suggested that diets high in red meat and salted or smoked foods may raise the risk of small intestine cancer.(Cleveland Clinic, 2022). A human prospective study observed a markedly elevated risk for carcinoid tumors of the small intestine associated with...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-18 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today. I scheduled this check-up because my work hours are shifting a bit, and I want to make sure I’m staying on top of my health. My spouse also suggested I come in since we’ve both been pretty busy lately.

Doctor: Good morning! I’m glad you could come in, and it’s always a great idea to get a regular check-up, especially if work or life gets busier. Let’s start with the basics—have you noticed any new symptoms or health concerns since your last visit?

Patient: Nothing too major, but I have had a bit of fatigue lately and sometimes my back feels stiff after I’ve been in the lab all day. I work with samples for a research team, doing a bunch of biology experiments and prepping the materials, so there’s a fair amount of standing and pipetting.

Doctor: Thank you for mentioning that. Long hours at the bench can definitely contribute to aches and tiredness. Are you able to take regular breaks during your shifts?

Patient: I try to, but you know how it is with deadlines in research—sometimes you just push through, especially when you’re running a sequence or prepping for the next test. My boss and crew depend on us to keep things moving. Lately, my schedule’s been more packed because we started a new project. Being a ‘bio tech’ in the sciences isn’t always 9-to-5.

Doctor: That makes sense. Fatigue can also be related to other factors beyond work, such as your diet, exercise, or sleep. How are you doing in those areas?

Patient: I think I do okay. My partner helps me keep track of meals, and we try to make healthy choices at home—not always easy with our schedule, but we try. I typically get about six to seven hours of sleep, unless I’m working late. We live over near Tunnel; I can sometimes walk home from the lab, which helps me relax. Our address is forty-one Tunnel Road, up by the Claremont side.

Doctor: That’s a good area to get some walking in. With your schedule, fitting activity in is great. You mentioned having a partner—how is your home life? Stress can sometimes add to fatigue, so I want to make sure you’re supported.

Patient: Honestly, I think we’re doing pretty well. We got married a few years back, and having that support makes a difference. My spouse is amazing, even when I have to pull overtime or deal with late-night experiments.

Doctor: That’s really good to hear. Emotional and social support are both important for your health. Let’s talk a bit more about your work because lab environments come with some unique risks. Are you regularly exposed to any hazardous materials or do you have any concerns about lab safety?

Patient: We mostly work with cell lines and standard reagents, nothing high risk like radioactivity. I do have to stay up on the protocols for biosafety. I took quite a few classes on these topics in college—graduated with my bachelor’s. My school made us go through extra training before we worked with anything hazardous.

Doctor: That's excellent. Having a background in safety through your undergrad is reassuring. Any allergies or past reactions to chemicals that you’re aware of?

Patient: Nothing that’s come up—I'm always careful. I do, though, remember one time having a rash as a kid back in Manila, but nothing here since we moved. My family’s background is Filipino, so I sort of grew up with certain foods and environments, but nothing major has stuck with me health-wise since I’ve been in the Bay Area.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing your family background—that can sometimes be relevant for certain health screenings. It's also good to know you haven't had recent issues. Speaking of your move, how long have you been in the US?

Patient: It’s been a while now. I actually went through the whole process—took the civics test, did the oath and everything a few years back. So, earned my stars and stripes by the book, which I’m kind of proud of.

Doctor: Congratulations! That’s a significant accomplishment. It’s always a big milestone for patients who have gone through that process. Do you frequently travel back to visit relatives or spend most of your time here?

Patient: I mostly stay here. Research doesn’t exactly let you take long trips, but I try to keep in touch with family online. Plus, my home base now is definitely here in Berkeley. Not planning on leaving our zip—or my job—anytime soon.

Doctor: Understood. Now, because you’re in science and on your feet a lot, do you experience any repetitive strain—like wrist or hand pain—or is it mainly your back and overall fatigue?

Patient: Thankfully, it’s mostly just the back stiffness. I think because of all the pipetting, my hands are used to it. The main thing is making sure I don’t slouch over the benches. A friend of mine from college, also in bio, warned me about posture being a problem for techs.

Doctor: Good to hear you’re conscious about posture. I’d recommend adding some gentle stretches at the start and end of your day. Would you like specific exercises or referrals, like physical therapy?

Patient: Yeah, I think an exercise sheet would be helpful. We have some wellness programs at work, but having a doc’s recommendation would carry more weight. My partner will also push me to actually do them!

Doctor: Absolutely, I’ll print out a set for you. Is there anything else you’d like to address today?

Patient: No, I think that covers it for now. I just wanted to make sure you had all the information, especially since our jobs can be stressful. My science supervisor is also pretty keen on us looking after ourselves with all the pressure in the lab.

Doctor: That’s wise of your supervisor. Keeping your health a priority is vital. If the fatigue continues despite these changes, or if you notice any new symptoms, don’t hesitate to contact us. And I’m just a call away if you ever need records sent for your next study, consultation, or if you want them sent over to your address on Tunnel.

Patient: Thank you, doctor. I appreciate it—especially squeezing me in today. I’ll put those stretches to use, and say “hi” from both me and my spouse when we next come by.

Doctor: My pleasure! Wishing both of you well. Be sure to follow up if anything comes up. Have a great rest of your day.

Patient: Thanks, you too.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_95 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Local search (constraint satisfaction)

In constraint satisfaction, local search is an incomplete method for finding a solution to a problem. It is based on iteratively improving an assignment of the variables until all constraints are satisfied. In particular, local search algorithms typically modify the value of a variable in an assignment at each step. The new assignment is close to the previous one in the space of assignment, hence the name local search.

All local search algorithms use a function that evaluates the quality of assignment, for example the number of constraints violated by the assignment. This amount is called the cost of the assignment. The aim of local search is that of finding an assignment of minimal cost, which is a solution if any exists.

Two classes of local search algorithms exist. The first one is that of greedy or non-randomized algorithms. These algorithms proceed by changing the current assignment by always trying to decrease (or at least, non-increase) its cost.  The main problem of these algorithms is the possible presence of plateaus, which are regions of the space of assignments where no local move decreases cost. The second class of local search algorithm have been invented to solve this problem. They escape these plateaus by doing random moves, and are called randomized local search algorithms.

Greedy algorithms

Hill climbing

The most basic form of local search is based on choosing the change that maximally decreases the cost of the solution. This method, called hill climbing, proceeds as follows: first, a random assignment is chosen; then, a value is changed so as to maximally improve the quality of the resulting assignment. If no solution has been found after a given number of changes, a new random assignment is selected. Hill climbing algorithms can only escape a plateau by doing changes that do not change the quality of the assignment. As a result, they can be stuck in a plateau where the quality of assignment has a local maxima.

GSAT (greedy sat) was the first local search algorithm for satisfiability, and is a form of hill climbing.

Constraint weighting or breakout method

A method for escaping from a local minimum is that of using a weighted sum of violated constraints as a measure of cost, and changing some weights when no improving move is available. More precisely, if no change reduces the cost of the assignment, the algorithm increases the weight of constraints violated by the current assignment.

This way, every move that would not otherwise change the cost of the solution decreases it. Moreover, the weight of constraints that remain violated for a large number of moves keeps increasing. Therefore, during a number of moves not satisfying a constraint, the cost of moves to assignments satisfying that constraint keeps increasing.

Tabu search

A drawback of hill climbing with moves that do not decrease cost is that it may cycle over assignments of the same cost. Tabu search overcomes this problem by maintaining a list of "forbidden" assignments, called the tabu list. In particular, the tabu list typically contains only the most recent changes. More precisely, it contains the last variable-value pair such that the variable has been recently assigned to the value.

This list is updated every time the assignment is changed. If a variable is assigned to a value, the variable-value pair is added to the list, and the oldest pair is removed from it. This way, the list only contains the most recent assignments to a variable. If a variable-value pair is in the tabu list, then changing the current assignment by setting the variable to the value is forbidden. The algorithm can only choose the best move among the ones that are not forbidden. This way, it cannot cycle over the same solution unless the number of moves in this cycle is larger than the length of the tabu list.

Random walk

A random walk algorithm sometimes moves like a greedy algorithm but sometimes moves randomly. It depends on a parameter , which is a real...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_205 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Roadway air dispersion modeling

Roadway air dispersion modeling is the study of air pollutant transport from a roadway or other linear emitter. Computer models  are required to conduct this analysis, because of the complex variables involved, including vehicle emissions, vehicle speed, meteorology, and terrain geometry.  Line source dispersion has been studied since at least the 1960s, when the regulatory framework in the United States began requiring quantitative analysis of the air pollution consequences of major roadway and airport projects.  By the early 1970s this subset of atmospheric dispersion models was being applied to real-world cases of highway planning, even including some controversial court cases.

How the model works
The basic concept of the roadway air dispersion model is to calculate air pollutant levels in the vicinity of a highway or arterial roadway by considering them as line sources.  The model takes into account source characteristics such as traffic volume, vehicle speeds, truck mix, and fleet emission controls; in addition, the roadway geometry, surrounding terrain and local meteorology are addressed.  For example, many air quality standards require that certain near worst-case meteorological conditions be applied.

The calculations are sufficiently complex that a computer model is essential to arrive at authoritative results, although workbook-type manuals have been developed as screening techniques.  In some cases where results must be refereed (such as legal cases), model validation may be needed with field test data in the local setting; this step is not usually warranted, because the best models have been extensively validated over a wide spectrum of input data variables.

The product of the calculations is usually a set of isopleths or mapped contour lines either in plan view or cross sectional view.  Typically these might be stated as concentrations of carbon monoxide, total reactive hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen, particulate or benzene.  The air quality scientist can run the model successively to study techniques of reducing adverse air pollutant concentrations (for example, by redesigning roadway geometry, altering speed controls or limiting certain types of trucks).  The model is frequently utilized in an Environmental Impact Statement involving a major new roadway or land use change that will induce new vehicular traffic.

History
The logical building block for this theory was the use of the Gaussian air pollutant dispersion equation for point sources.   One of the early point source air pollutant plume dispersion equations was derived by Bosanquet and Pearson in 1936.  Their equation did not include the effect of ground reflection of the pollutant plume.  Sir Graham Sutton derived a point source air pollutant plume dispersion equation in 1947 which included the assumption of Gaussian distribution for the vertical and crosswind dispersion of the plume and also addressed the effect of ground reflection of the plume.  Further advances were made by G. A. Briggs in model refinement and validation and by D.B. Turner  for his user-friendly workbook that included screening calculations which do not require a computer.

In seeing the need to develop a line source model to approach the study of roadway air pollution,
Michael Hogan and Richard Venti developed a closed-form solution to integrating the point source equation in a series of publications.

While the ESL mathematical model  was completed for a line source by 1970,  model refinement resulted in a “strip source”, emulating the horizontal extent of the roadway surface.  This theory would be the precursor of area source dispersion models.  But their focus was roadway simulation, so they proceeded with the development of a computer model by adding to the team Leda Patmore, a computer programmer in the field of atmospheric physics and satellite trajectory calculations.  A working computer model was produced by late 1970; then the model was calibrated with carbon monoxide...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-86 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, thanks for seeing me today. I’ve been having these weird headaches for about a week, and I thought it’d be best not to ignore them any longer.

Doctor: It’s good that you came in. Can you describe the headaches in more detail? Are they sharp, dull, or more of a pressure? And where do you feel them exactly?

Patient: They're kind of a throbbing sensation, usually behind my temples. Sometimes it spreads across my forehead too. It usually pops up in the late afternoon, once I’ve been looking at numbers for a few hours.

Doctor: I see. And what do you do for work? Are you often at a computer?

Patient: Yeah, I'm in finance, so my job’s pretty much crunching data and analyzing spreadsheets all day. I’m a money numbers guy, I guess you could say.

Doctor: That does sound screen-intensive. Do you often skip breaks?

Patient: More than I should, honestly. If the markets are busy, I’ll sit there for ages without much of a pause. Lately it’s been a really demanding period, and yeah, I admit I haven’t been stepping away as much.

Doctor: I understand. And your work, you said, is full time currently?

Patient: Yes, I’m clocking a standard 40, probably closer to 50 at the moment. It’s not like I’m laying bricks, but the mental load can be heavy.

Doctor: That makes sense. And you’re working in the US now, is that correct?

Patient: Yeah, I moved here a while ago for the job, but I’m not from here originally. My background’s a bit of a mix—my dad’s from Korea and my mom has roots in Singapore and Hong Kong. So, I tick a few boxes on those forms, you know what I mean?

Doctor: I see. Have you ever experienced headaches like this before, maybe back home or while traveling?

Patient: Not really, or not that I can recall. Maybe some tension headaches back in college, but nothing this consistent.

Doctor: You mentioned college—what’s your educational background?

Patient: Oh, just the usual. I did four years at uni and graduated with a bachelor’s. I thought about grad school, but finance was calling me and, well, the rest is history.

Doctor: That’s helpful, thanks. Now, besides the headaches, are you having any vision changes, nausea, or issues like that?

Patient: Actually, I did notice the screen gets blurry when it gets late. No nausea, but a bit of eye strain at times. I’m thinking it might just be from all those hours staring at the monitor.

Doctor: That’s certainly possible. Any trouble sleeping or other health concerns lately?

Patient: Sleep’s hit or miss. If I’m anxious about a big presentation or a report, I’ll toss and turn. It doesn’t help that I check my emails way too late—old habits die hard! Checking min.lee89 at g mail dot com is probably the last thing I should do before bed, but it’s tough when you work with global teams.

Doctor: Understandable. Are you currently taking any medications, prescribed or otherwise?

Patient: No, nothing on a regular basis. I’ll pop an ibuprofen when the headache's bad, but that’s about it.

Doctor: And do you have any known allergies or medical conditions?

Patient: Nope, pretty healthy on that front.

Doctor: Since you mentioned not being from the US originally, have you had any trouble getting medical care here—insurance, seeing specialists, that sort of thing?

Patient: It’s not been too bad, but sometimes paperwork gets complicated with the visa stuff. I have work coverage, but I’m always a bit anxious about what’s in-network or what counts as “eligible.”

Doctor: That’s understandable. Stress from work and administrative issues can certainly contribute to headaches as well. How would you rate your stress overall lately?

Patient: Oh, probably a solid 7 or 8 if we’re being honest. End of quarter’s rough. I’m trying to make time for some self-care, but there’s always another chart to analyze or a budget model to tweak.

Doctor: That makes sense, especially in your line of work. Let’s talk about possible ways to manage both your eye strain and headaches. Would you be open to adjusting your schedule to make time for breaks?

Patient: Absolutely, if you think it would help. Maybe I can set reminders to look away from the screen and stretch.

Doctor: That’s a good start. The "20-20-20 rule" could be helpful—every 20 minutes, look at something 20 feet away for at least 20 seconds. Also, adjusting monitor height and lighting can reduce strain. Hydration helps, too.

Patient: Got it. I’ll try to remember, though when you’re in the weeds with valuations and projections, time passes fast. The bright side of working here is that I get to collaborate with people all around the world—less so when the meetings are at midnight though.

Doctor: Jet lag from global meetings is real, even if you’re not the one traveling. One last question—do you have any plans for travel or changes in your work status in the near future?

Patient: Not at the moment. As long as the visa paperwork keeps going smoothly, I’ll be right here plugging away on reports.

Doctor: Good to hear. I’ll document what we’ve discussed and recommend some lifestyle adjustments for now. If your symptoms persist or worsen, we can look further. Would you like a printout of relaxation techniques, or should I send it to your email?

Patient: Sending it to my min dot lee89 at gmail would be best, thanks.

Doctor: Will do. And please don’t hesitate to reach out if you have any further concerns, all right?

Patient: I appreciate it, Doctor. Thanks for all the advice.

Doctor: Take care, and let me know if you need anything else.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-75 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I was hoping you could help me brainstorm some ideas for finding a job. I'm unemployed right now and looking to switch things up.

Chatbot: Of course! I’d be happy to help. Can you tell me more about your background or what kind of work you might be interested in pursuing?

Person: Sure, let me give a quick rundown. I’m a man, and I have completed some college, but less than one year. I always wish I would’ve gone further with my education, but life just happened, you know?

Chatbot: That’s understandable, and you’re certainly not alone in that. There are plenty of opportunities for those with some college experience. Is there a particular industry or job type that interests you?

Person: Not really tied to anything in particular. Just looking for something steady to help me get back on my feet. For context, I was born in Guam, so sometimes I wonder if being Guamanian or Chamorro could open up opportunities for cultural outreach or diversity hiring.

Chatbot: That unique background can definitely be an asset, especially with organizations interested in cultural diversity or advocacy. Have you thought about roles in community centers, cultural education, or positions that work with Pacific Islander groups?

Person: That’s a good suggestion! Maybe I’ll check local community centers or cultural organizations around the area. Also, do you know if there are any specific resources for people born in Guam or other U.S. territories who are currently unemployed?

Chatbot: Yes, there are often local and federal programs tailored for individuals from U.S. territories like Guam, especially for those facing joblessness. Resources can include government employment agencies, Pacific Islander advocacy groups, and college career centers—even if you completed less than a year, you might still have access to those services from your school.

Person: Thanks, I’ll definitely look into those. I do sometimes feel like my resume doesn’t stand out, since I’m unemployed and haven’t gotten a full year of college under my belt. Any tips for highlighting strengths?

Chatbot: Absolutely. Focus on skills you’ve gained outside the classroom—volunteer work, language abilities tied to your Guamanian or Chamorro heritage, or even part-time or temporary jobs. Employers appreciate soft skills like communication, adaptability, and initiative too.

Person: Great advice. By the way, if I find job postings and need help with applications or online payments for certifications, can you guide me safely through those processes? For example, when it comes to entering my credit card info?

Chatbot: I can definitely help walk you through those applications and provide tips for securely submitting sensitive info like your credit card number. Always make sure websites are secure (look for https and the padlock icon). Never share your credit card number, such as 4552312432921271, on untrusted or unfamiliar sites.

Person: Got it, extra caution with where and how I type my card details. That’s actually my credit card number, just so you know what kind of format I’m working with for online transactions.

Chatbot: Understood. Remember to keep that number private and only use it on secure, reputable websites. Are you planning to purchase any specific work-related materials or certifications online?

Person: Possibly. I was thinking about an online computer basics certification since my college experience was short. It might boost my chances. I just need to make sure any purchase for a course like that, when I use my credit card number 4552312432921271, is done securely.

Chatbot: That’s a smart decision, and a computer certification could really strengthen your resume. Research platforms with good reputations, like Coursera or LinkedIn Learning, and always double-check that the payment page is encrypted before you enter your credit card number. If you’re ever unsure, ask me!

Person: Makes sense. Switching topics slightly, you mentioned cultural organizations. Being born in Guam and identifying as Guamanian or Chamorro, are there scholarships or programs for someone with some college but less than 1 year?

Chatbot: Yes, there are scholarships, training grants, and mentorship programs specifically for Pacific Islanders, including those from Guam and individuals who are Guamanian or Chamorro. Some focus on those returning to education or job training, particularly if you have some college experience but haven’t completed a degree.

Person: That’s good to know. I’ll look at those as well. By the way, being unemployed for a while does affect my self-esteem, especially as a male. Do you have any advice for maintaining motivation?

Chatbot: Absolutely. Job searches can be tough, but remember that unemployment is a temporary situation. Set small, achievable goals, like updating your resume or researching one job lead each day. Connecting with community groups, especially those that celebrate your Guamanian or Chamorro heritage, can also help fight isolation and keep you motivated.

Person: Thanks. I’ve always found strength in my culture and community back in Guam. I guess keeping that connection while I’m between jobs helps a lot.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful to hear. Holding on to your roots provides resilience and perspective during challenging times. If you’d like, I can also help you draft emails, cover letters, or even find relevant job boards and groups to join.

Person: That would be really helpful. I’ll gather the details and maybe you can help me polish my resume and cover letter. And if I need to fill out applications or make payments for certifications, I’ll let you know so you can remind me about safely using my credit card 4552312432921271.

Chatbot: Absolutely, just let me know whenever you need help. I’ll be here for any part of your job search, from resume writing to making safe payments. You’ve got this!

Person: Thanks. I appreciate your support and guidance as I navigate being unemployed, with just some college under my belt as a Guamanian or Chamorro male born in Guam. Here’s hoping things turn around soon!

Chatbot: With your resilience and willingness to seek out resources and take action, I’m confident you’ll find a great opportunity soon. Feel free to come back anytime for more support or advice.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_79 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Conductor gallop

Conductor gallop is the high-amplitude, low-frequency oscillation of overhead power lines due to wind. The movement of the wires occurs most commonly in the vertical plane, although horizontal or rotational motion is also possible. The natural frequency mode tends to be around 1 Hz, leading the often graceful periodic motion to also be known as conductor dancing. The oscillations can exhibit amplitudes in excess of a metre, and the displacement is sometimes sufficient for the phase conductors to infringe operating clearances (coming too close to other objects), and causing flashover. The forceful motion also adds significantly to the loading stress on insulators and electricity pylons, raising the risk of mechanical failure of either.

The mechanisms that initiate gallop are not always clear, though it is thought to be often caused by asymmetric conductor aerodynamics due to ice build up on one side of a wire. The crescent of encrusted ice approximates an aerofoil, altering the normally round profile of the wire and increasing the tendency to oscillate.

Gallop can be a significant problem for transmission system operators, particularly where lines cross open, windswept country and are at risk to ice loading. If gallop is likely to be a concern, designers can employ smooth-faced conductors, whose improved icing and aerodynamic characteristics reduce the motion. Additionally, anti-gallop devices may be mounted to the line to convert the lateral motion to a less damaging twisting one. Increasing the tension in the line and adopting more rigid insulator attachments have the effect of reducing galloping motion. These measures can be costly, are often impractical after the line has been constructed, and can increase the tendency for the line to exhibit high frequency oscillations.

If ice loading is suspected, it may be possible to increase power transfer on the line, and so raise its temperature by Joule heating, melting the ice. The sudden loss of ice from a line can result in a phenomenon called "jump", in which the catenary dramatically rebounds upwards in response to the change in weight. If the risk of trip is high, the operator may elect to pre-emptively switch out the line in a controlled manner rather than face an unexpected fault. The risk of mechanical failure of the line remains.

Theoretical analysis 
The earliest studies of long wires embedded in a moving fluid motion dates to the late 19th century, when Vincenc Strouhal explained "singing" wires in terms of vortex shedding.  Gallop is now known to arise from a different physical phenomenon: aerodynamic lift.  Ice accumulated on the wire destroys the circular symmetry of the wire, and the natural up-and-down "singing" motion of a wire changes the angle of attack of the iced wire in the wind.  For certain shapes, the variation in lift across the different angles is so large that it excites large-scale oscillations.  

Mathematically, an unloaded extended wire in dead air can be approximated as a mass  suspended at height  by a spring with constant .  If the wind moves with velocity , then it makes angle  with the wire, where At large wind velocities, the lift and drag induced on the wire are proportional to the square of the wind velocity, but the proportionality constants  and  (for a noncircular wire) depend on : where  is the fluid density and  the length of the wire.  

In principle, the excited oscillation can take three forms: rotation of the wire, horizontal sway, or vertical plunge.  Most gallops combine rotation with at least one of the other two forms.  For algebraic simplicity, this article will analyze a conductor only experiencing plunge (and not rotation); a similar treatment can address other dynamics.  From geometrical considerations, the vertical component of the force must be keeping only terms first-order in the regime .  Gallop occurs whenever the driving coefficient  exceeds the natural damping of the wire; in particular, a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-16 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon! Can you hear me alright on your end?

Other: Yes, loud and clear. Thanks for joining the call. How’s your week treating you?

Target: Pretty good so far. I’ve been out on the street a lot—getting my steps in from house to house. The grind of working as a vendor never really takes a break, especially in my line of selling door-to-door.

Other: I can imagine! The job must keep you on your toes. Is it mostly newspapers you move, or do you deal with other products too?

Target: It’s a mix—some local papers, but I also carry magazines and sometimes even snacks depending on the day. I actually have a permit for street vending, so I can set up a little stand here and there in my neighborhood as well.

Other: Interesting! And you’re based in the southern region, right?

Target: That’s right. I’ve lived in tx for well over a decade now. It’s home for me and my wife—we love the culture, especially around Houston.

Other: Houston is fantastic! Although, I bet working outdoors in that texan heat is no joke.

Target: You said it. Some days I feel like I’m just melting, but you get used to it, especially after so many years on the job. I started out in sales when I was pretty young, actually. My first gig was back when I wasn’t even twenty-five.

Other: Seems like you’ve built a life around it. Do you mostly work solo, or do you have others on your team?

Target: It’s mainly just me—civilian through and through, and on the payroll like everyone else. I do connect with other street vendors at certain events, but my daily route is a one-person operation.

Other: Got it. In terms of paperwork or regulations, do you run into any challenges or red tape?

Target: There’s the usual stuff—permits, city guidelines—you have to renew them every year, especially in tx where the counties all want their own forms filled out. Payments for those licenses have to be kept up, but you learn the system after a while.

Other: How do you manage orders and deliveries? Are customers ringing you, or do you have a set schedule for stops?

Target: A little bit of both, actually. Most regulars have my contact details saved—one lady even calls my cell every Friday morning to put aside her favorite magazine. My number isn’t too hard to remember, either: starts with that tx area code, nine-three-six, then it’s seven-4-6, then one five three zero.

Other: That’s efficient! I admire anyone who can remember phone numbers these days. So, when you’re not on the grind, how do you spend your downtime?

Target: Honestly, I catch up with my better half. We’ve been together for years—married life really is a partnership, you know? She’s a big support, especially with the early mornings and late deliveries.

Other: That’s wonderful. How long have you guys been married?

Target: We tied the knot just about fifteen years back. Funny story—our anniversary falls the day before my birthday, so I always get reminded! I was born in seventy-eight, April, so every year, mid-month, it’s a double celebration for us.

Other: That’s a neat coincidence! April must be a festive time in your household. Any special plans for your next birthday?

Target: I usually keep it low-key—maybe dinner out with my spouse. Last year, we just stayed in and watched a baseball game on the seventeenth, my day. My wife baked a small cake, nothing too fancy.

Other: That sounds relaxing. Are you thinking of expanding your business, or do you prefer keeping it at this scale?

Target: Right now, I’m content staying small and local. The flexibility suits me. Being on the clock, but with my own schedule—that’s the civilian employed life, right? The big-box stores are too corporate for me.

Other: Fair enough. Do you ever get folks asking you how to get into this kind of work?

Target: Quite a bit, actually! I even had a neighbor’s teenage son shadow me last summer. I told him it’s not just about the selling—it’s building relationships, handling the ups and downs, and keeping your reputation in the neighborhood.

Other: Great advice. Does your location in tx influence your customer base at all?

Target: Definitely. The communities here are tight-knit, and texas folks value someone who’s reliable and shows up week after week. Plus, there’s a bit of southern charm that helps with the sales pitch.

Other: I bet. So, last question for today: what keeps you motivated to keep doing this day in and day out?

Target: My family, first and foremost. My spouse and I have a good rhythm, and financially, it keeps us comfortable. I also love the interactions—no two days are the same. Plus, being able to call my own shots and serve my community here in tx, that’s meaningful to me.

Other: Thanks so much for sharing all this, and for your time today. It’s been enlightening and inspiring to hear about your work and your approach to life.

Target: I appreciate that! If you or anyone needs papers dropped off or anything picked up, don’t hesitate to ring me. Remember: nine-three-six, seven four six, one five three zero. I’m always around.

Other: Will do! You take care, and give my regards to your wife.

Target: Will do. Thank you, and have a great rest of your week!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_215 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Wood drying

Wood drying (also seasoning lumber or wood seasoning) reduces the moisture content of wood before its use. When the drying is done in a kiln, the product is known as kiln-dried timber or lumber, whereas air drying is the more traditional method.

There are two main reasons for drying wood:
 WoodworkingWhen wood is used as a construction material, whether as a structural support in a building or in woodworking objects, it will absorb or expel moisture until it is in equilibrium with its surroundings. Equilibration (usually drying) causes unequal shrinkage in the wood, and can cause damage to the wood if equilibration occurs too rapidly. The equilibration must be controlled to prevent damage to the wood.
 Wood burning When wood is burned (firewood), it is usually best to dry it first. Damage from shrinkage is not a problem here, as it may be in the case of drying for woodworking purposes. Moisture affects the burning process, with unburnt hydrocarbons going up the chimney. If a 50% wet log is burnt at high temperature, with good heat extraction from the exhaust gas leading to a 100 °C exhaust temperature, about 5% of the energy of the log is wasted through evaporating and heating the water vapour. With condensers, the efficiency can be further increased; but, for the normal stove, the key to burning wet wood is to burn it very hot, perhaps starting fire with dry wood.

For some purposes, wood is not dried at all, and is used green. Often, wood must be in equilibrium with the air outside, as for construction wood, or the air indoors, as for wooden furniture.

Wood is air-dried or dried in a purpose built oven (kiln). Usually the wood is sawn before drying, but sometimes the log is dried whole.

Case hardening describes lumber or timber that has been dried too rapidly. Wood initially dries from the shell (surface), shrinking the shell and putting the core under compression. When this shell is at a low moisture content it will 'set' and resist shrinkage. The core of the wood is still at a higher moisture content. This core will then begin to dry and shrink. However, any shrinkage is resisted by the already 'set' shell. This leads to reversed stresses; compression stresses on the shell and tension stresses in the core. This results in unrelieved stress called case hardening. Case-hardened [wood] may warp considerably and dangerously when the stress is released by sawing.

Types of wood
Wood is divided, according to its botanical origin, into two kinds: softwoods, from coniferous trees, and hardwoods, from broad-leaved trees. Softwoods are lighter and generally simple in structure, whereas hardwoods are harder and more complex. However, in Australia, softwood generally describes rain forest trees, and hardwood describes Sclerophyll species (Eucalyptus spp).

Softwoods such as pine are typically much lighter and easier to process than hardwoods such as fruit tree wood. The density of softwoods ranges from  to , while hardwoods are  to . Once dried, both consist of approximately 12% of moisture (Desch and Dinwoodie, 1996). Because of hardwood's denser and more complex structure, its permeability is much less than that of softwood, making it more difficult to dry. Although there are about a hundred times more species of hardwood trees than softwood trees, the ability to be dried and processed faster and more easily makes softwood the main supply of commercial wood nowadays.

Wood–water relationships

When green wood dries, free water from the cell lumina, held by the capillary forces only, is the first to go. Physical properties, such as strength and shrinkage, are generally not affected by the removal of free water. The fibre saturation point (FSP) is defined as the moisture content at which free water should be completely gone, while the cell walls are saturated with bound water. In most types of woods, the fibre saturation point is at 25 to 30% moisture content. Siau (1984) reported that the fibre saturation point 
The timber of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_280 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Titanium(III) chloride

Titanium(III) chloride is the inorganic compound with the formula TiCl3. At least four distinct species have this formula; additionally hydrated derivatives are known. TiCl3 is one of the most common halides of titanium and is an important catalyst for the manufacture of polyolefins.

Structure and bonding
In TiCl3, each titanium atom has one d electron, rendering its derivatives paramagnetic, that is, the substance is attracted into a magnetic field. Solutions of titanium(III) chloride are violet, which arises from excitations of its d-electron. The colour is not very intense since the transition is forbidden by the Laporte selection rule.

Four solid forms or polymorphs of TiCl3 are known. All feature titanium in an octahedral coordination sphere. These forms can be distinguished by crystallography as well as by their magnetic properties, which probes exchange interactions. β-TiCl3 crystallizes as brown needles. Its structure consists of chains of TiCl6 octahedra that share opposite faces such that the closest Ti–Ti contact is 2.91 Å. This short distance indicates strong metal–metal interactions (see figure in upper right). The three violet "layered" forms, named for their color and their tendency to flake, are called alpha (α), gamma (γ), and delta (δ). In α-TiCl3, the chloride anions are hexagonal close-packed. In γ-TiCl3, the chlorides anions are cubic close-packed. Finally, disorder in shift successions, causes an intermediate between alpha and gamma structures, called the δ form. The TiCl6 share edges in each form, with 3.60 Å being the shortest distance between the titanium cations. This large distance between titanium cations precludes direct metal-metal bonding. In contrast, the trihalides of the heavier metals hafnium and zirconium engage in metal-metal bonding. Direct Zr–Zr bonding is indicated in zirconium(III) chloride. The difference between the Zr(III) and Ti(III) materials is attributed in part to the relative radii of these metal centers.

Two hydrates of titanium(III) chloride are known, i.e. complexes containing aquo ligands.  These include the pair of hydration isomers . The former is violet and the latter, with two molecules of water of crystallization, is green.

Synthesis and reactivity
TiCl3 is produced usually by reduction of titanium(IV) chloride.  Older reduction methods used hydrogen:
2 TiCl4  +  H2   →  2 HCl  +  2 TiCl3
It can also be produced by the reaction of titanium metal and hydrochloric acid.

It is conveniently reduced with aluminium and sold as a mixture with aluminium trichloride, TiCl3·AlCl3. This mixture can be separated to afford TiCl3(THF)3. The complex adopts a meridional structure. This light-blue complex TiCl3(THF)3 forms when TiCl3 is treated with tetrahydrofuran (THF).
TiCl3 + 3 C4H8O → TiCl3(OC4H8)3
An analogous dark green complex arises from complexation with dimethylamine. In a reaction where all ligands are exchanged, TiCl3 is a precursor to the blue-colored complex Ti(acac)3.

The more reduced titanium(II) chloride is prepared by the thermal disproportionation of TiCl3 at 500 °C. The reaction is driven by the loss of volatile TiCl4:
2 TiCl3 → TiCl2 + TiCl4

The ternary halides, such as A3TiCl6, have structures that depend on the cation (A+) added. Caesium chloride treated with titanium(II) chloride and hexachlorobenzene produces crystalline CsTi2Cl7. In these structures Ti3+ exhibits octahedral coordination geometry.

Applications
TiCl3 is the main Ziegler–Natta catalyst, responsible for most industrial production of polyethylene. The catalytic activities depend strongly on the polymorph of the TiCl3 (α vs. β vs. γ vs. δ) and the method of preparation.

Laboratory use
TiCl3 is also a specialized reagent in organic synthesis, useful for reductive coupling reactions, often in the presence of added reducing agents such as zinc. It reduces oximes to imines. Titanium trichloride can reduce nitrate to ammonium ion thereby allowing for the sequential analysis of nitrate and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_265 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Stress granule

In cellular biology, stress granules are biomolecular condensates in the cytosol composed of proteins and RNAs that assemble into 0.1–2 μm membraneless organelles when the cell is under stress. The mRNA molecules found in stress granules are stalled translation pre-initiation complexes associated with 40S ribosomal subunits, translation initiation factors, poly(A)+ mRNAs and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). While they are membraneless organelles, stress granules have been proposed to be associated with the endoplasmatic reticulum. There are also nuclear stress granules. This article is about the cytosolic variety.

Proposed functions 

The function of stress granules remains largely unknown. Stress granules have long been proposed to have a function to protect RNAs from harmful conditions, thus their appearance under stress. The accumulation of RNAs into dense globules could keep them from reacting with harmful chemicals and safeguard the information coded in their RNA sequence.

Stress granules might also function as a decision point for untranslated mRNAs. Molecules can go down one of three paths: further storage, degradation, or re-initiation of translation. Conversely, it has also been argued that stress granules are not important sites for mRNA storage nor do they serve as an intermediate location for mRNAs in transit between a state of storage and a state of degradation.

Efforts to identify all RNAs within stress granules (the stress granule transcriptome) in an unbiased way by sequencing RNA from biochemically purified stress granule "cores" have shown that RNAs are not recruited to stress granules in a sequence-specific manner, but rather generically, with longer and/or less-optimally translated transcripts being enriched. These data imply that the stress granule transcriptome is influenced by the valency of RNA (for proteins or other RNAs) and by the rates of RNA run-off from polysomes. The latter is further supported by recent single molecule imaging studies. Furthermore, it was estimated that only about 15% of the total mRNA in the cell is localized to stress granules, suggesting that stress granules only influence a minority of mRNAs in the cell and may not be as important for mRNA processing as previously thought. That said, these studies represent only a snapshot in time, and it is likely that a larger fraction of mRNAs are at one point stored in stress granules due to those RNAs transiting in and out.

The stress proteins that are the main component of stress granules in plant cells are molecular chaperones that sequester, protect, and possibly repair proteins that unfold during heat and other types of stress. Therefore, any association of mRNAs with stress granules may simply be a side effect of the association of partially unfolded RNA-binding proteins with stress granules, similar to the association of mRNAs with proteasomes.

Formation 

Environmental stressors trigger cellular signaling, eventually leading to the formation of stress granules. In vitro, these stressors can include heat, cold, oxidative stress (sodium arsenite), endoplasmic reticulum stress (thapsigargin), proteasome inhibition (MG132), hyperosmotic stress, ultraviolet radiation, inhibition of eIF4A (pateamine A, hippuristanol, or RocA), nitric oxide accumulation after treatment with 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), perturbation of pre-mRNA splicing, and other stressors, like puromycin, which result in disassembled polysomes. Many of these stressors result in the activation of particular stress-associated kinases (HRI, PERK, PKR, and GCN2), translational inhibition and stress granule formation.   Stress granules will also form upon Gαq activation in a mechanism that involves the release of stress granule associated proteins from the cytosolic population of the Gαq effector phospholipase Cβ.

Stress granule formation is often downstream of the stress-activated phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2α; this does not hold...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_264 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# New York State Route 3A

New York State Route 3A (NY 3A) is a county-maintained state highway in Jefferson County, New York, in the United States. The route is an alternate route of NY 3 between the village of Deferiet and Fargo, a hamlet within the town of Wilna. While NY 3 veers south to serve the village of Carthage, NY 3A follows a direct east–west alignment between the two communities. The eastern half of the route passes through the Fort Drum limits. All of NY 3A is co-designated as County Route 36 (CR 36) and is co-signed as such.

The origins of the route date back to the 1930s when it was first designated as part of NY 3. The alignments of NY 3 and New York State Route 3G between Deferiet and Fargo were flipped , placing NY 3 on its modern alignment via Carthage and NY 3G on modern NY 3A. The NY 3G designation was eliminated in the 1940s. Its former alignment went unnumbered until September 1950, when it was redesignated as NY 3A.

Route description

NY 3A begins at an intersection with NY 3 in the village of Deferiet. It heads northeastward, passing to the south of the village center as it heads through an undeveloped area of the community. It continues across a small canal and past a chemical plant before turning eastward and leaving the Deferiet village limits. The route heads on through the town of Wilna, passing through a small, unnamed community built up around CR 37 and little else before entering the limits of Fort Drum. While in Fort Drum, NY 3A heads through a dense forest as it heads across an area with no development whatsoever. This trend finally ceases in the small hamlet of Fargo, where NY 3A passes by a handful of buildings before ending at another junction with NY 3. All of NY 3A is maintained by Jefferson County; as a result, it is co-designated and co-signed as CR 36.

History
NY 3 originally went through Carthage on its way from Deferiet to Fargo. It was realigned  to bypass Carthage to the north on modern NY 3A. The former routing of NY 3 between Deferiet and Carthage was originally designated as NY 3F; however, it was redesignated as NY 3G by the following year. NY 3 was moved back to the Deferiet–Carthage–Fargo alignment  while the NY 3G designation was transferred to the former routing of NY 3 between Deferiet and Fargo. The NY 3G designation was removed in the 1940s. Its former routing remained unnumbered until September 1950, when it was redesignated as NY 3A.

In 2016, a study by the Missile Defense Agency of the United States Department of Defense proposed the idea of shutting down NY 3A to the public for a missile defense site at Fort Drum. Ceasing to be a public highway, the traffic that would follow NY 3A (AADT of 2,298) would be directed onto NY 3 directly through the village of Carthage.

Major intersections

See also

List of county routes in Jefferson County, New York

References

External links

003A
Transportation in Jefferson County, New York
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_253 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Nominal type system

In computer science, a type system is nominal (also called nominative or name-based) if compatibility and equivalence of data types is determined by explicit declarations and/or the name of the types. Nominal systems are used to determine if types are equivalent, as well as if a type is a subtype of another. Nominal type systems contrast with structural systems, where comparisons are based on the structure of the types in question and do not require explicit declarations.

Nominal typing 

Nominal typing means that two variables are type-compatible if and only if their declarations name the same type. For example, in C, two struct types with different names in the same translation unit are never considered compatible, even if they have identical field declarations.

However, C also allows a typedef declaration, which introduces an alias for an existing type. These are merely syntactical and do not differentiate the type from its alias for the purpose of type checking. This feature, present in many languages, can result in a loss of type safety when (for example) the same primitive integer type is used in two semantically distinct ways. Haskell provides the C-style syntactic alias in the form of the type declaration, as well as the newtype declaration that does introduce a new, distinct type, isomorphic to an existing type.

Nominal subtyping 

In a similar fashion, nominal subtyping means that one type is a subtype of another if and only if it is explicitly declared to be so in its definition. Nominally-typed languages typically enforce the requirement that declared subtypes be structurally compatible (though Eiffel allows non-compatible subtypes to be declared). However, subtypes which are structurally compatible "by accident", but not declared as subtypes, are not considered to be subtypes.

C++, C#, Java, Objective-C, Delphi, Swift, Julia and Rust all primarily use both nominal typing and nominal subtyping.

Some nominally-subtyped languages, such as Java and C#, allow classes to be declared final (or sealed in C# terminology), indicating that no further subtyping is permitted.

Comparison 

Nominal typing is useful at preventing accidental type equivalence, which allows better type-safety than structural typing. The cost is a reduced flexibility, as, for example, nominal typing does not allow new super-types to be created without modification of the existing subtypes.

See also 
 Structural type system
 Abstract type
 Type system

References

Sources

External links 
 c2.com: Nominative and structural typing

Type systems
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_36 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cult film

A cult film or cult movie, also commonly referred to as a cult classic, is a film that has acquired a cult following. Cult films are known for their dedicated, passionate fanbase which forms an elaborate subculture, members of which engage in repeated viewings, dialogue-quoting, and audience participation. Inclusive definitions allow for major studio productions, especially box-office bombs, while exclusive definitions focus more on obscure, transgressive films shunned by the mainstream. The difficulty in defining the term and subjectivity of what qualifies as a cult film mirror classificatory disputes about art. The term cult film itself was first used in the 1970s to describe the culture that surrounded underground films and midnight movies, though cult was in common use in film analysis for decades prior to that.

Cult films trace their origin back to controversial and suppressed films kept alive by dedicated fans. In some cases, reclaimed or rediscovered films have acquired cult followings decades after their original release, occasionally for their camp value. Other cult films have since become well-respected or reassessed as classics; there is debate as to whether these popular and accepted films are still cult films. After failing at the cinema, some cult films have become regular fixtures on cable television or profitable sellers on home video. Others have inspired their own film festivals. Cult films can both appeal to specific subcultures and form their own subcultures. Other media that reference cult films can easily identify which demographics they desire to attract and offer savvy fans an opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge.

Cult films frequently break cultural taboos, and many feature excessive displays of violence, gore, sexuality, profanity, or combinations thereof. This can lead to controversy, censorship, and outright bans; less transgressive films may attract similar amounts of controversy when critics call them frivolous or incompetent. Films that fail to attract requisite amounts of controversy may face resistance when labeled as cult films. Mainstream films and big budget blockbusters have attracted cult followings similar to more underground and lesser known films; fans of these films often emphasize the films' niche appeal and reject the more popular aspects. Fans who like the films for the wrong reasons, such as perceived elements that represent mainstream appeal and marketing, will often be ostracized or ridiculed. Likewise, fans who stray from accepted subcultural scripts may experience similar rejection.

Since the late 1970s, cult films have become increasingly popular. Films that once would have been limited to obscure cult followings are now capable of breaking into the mainstream, and showings of cult films have proved to be a profitable business venture. Overbroad usage of the term has resulted in controversy, as purists state it has become a meaningless descriptor applied to any film that is the slightest bit weird or unconventional; others accuse Hollywood studios of trying to artificially create cult films or use the term as a marketing tactic. Films are frequently stated to be an "instant cult classic" now, occasionally before they are released. Fickle fans on the Internet have latched on to unreleased films only to abandon them later on release. At the same time, other films have acquired massive, quick cult followings, owing to spreading virally through social media. Easy access to cult films via video on demand and peer-to-peer file sharing has led some critics to pronounce the death of cult films.

Definition

A cult film is any film that has a cult following, although the term is not easily defined and can be applied to a wide variety of films. Some definitions exclude films that have been released by major studios or have big budgets, that try specifically to become cult films, or become accepted by mainstream audiences and critics. Cult films are defined by audience reaction...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_163 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dynamic logic (digital electronics)

In integrated circuit design, dynamic logic (or sometimes clocked logic) is a design methodology in combinational logic circuits, particularly those implemented in metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) technology. It is distinguished from the so-called static logic by exploiting temporary storage of information in  stray and gate capacitances. It was popular in the 1970s and has seen a recent resurgence in the design of high-speed digital electronics, particularly central processing units (CPUs). Dynamic logic circuits are usually faster than static counterparts and require less surface area, but are more difficult to design.  Dynamic logic has a higher average rate of voltage transitions than static logic, but the capacitive loads being transitioned are smaller so the overall power consumption of dynamic logic may be higher or lower depending on various tradeoffs.  When referring to a particular logic family, the dynamic adjective usually suffices to distinguish the design methodology, e.g. dynamic CMOS or dynamic SOI design.

Besides its use of dynamic state storage via voltages on capacitances, dynamic logic is distinguished from so-called static logic in that dynamic logic uses a clock signal in its implementation of combinational logic.  The usual use of a clock signal is to synchronize transitions in sequential logic circuits. For most implementations of combinational logic, a clock signal is not even needed.  The static/dynamic terminology used to refer to combinatorial circuits is related to the use of the same adjectives used to distinguish memory devices, e.g. static RAM from dynamic RAM, in that dynamic RAM stores state dynamically as voltages on capacitances, which must be periodically refreshed.  But there are also differences in usage; the clock can be stopped in the appropriate phase in a system with dynamic logic and static storage.

Static versus dynamic logic 
The largest difference between static and dynamic logic is that in dynamic logic, a clock signal is used to evaluate combinational logic. In most types of logic design, termed static logic, there is always some mechanism to drive the output either high or low.  In many of the popular logic styles, such as TTL and traditional CMOS, this principle can be rephrased as a statement that there is always a low-impedance DC path between the output and either the supply voltage or the ground.  As a side note, there is, of course, an exception in this definition in the case of high impedance outputs, such as a tri-state buffer; however, even in these cases, the circuit is intended to be used within a larger system where some mechanism will drive the output, and they do not qualify as distinct from static logic.

In contrast, in dynamic logic, there is not always a mechanism driving the output high or low.  In the most common version of this concept, the output is driven high or low during distinct parts of the clock cycle.  During the time intervals when the output is not being actively driven, stray capacitance causes it to maintain a level within some tolerance range of the driven level.

Dynamic logic requires a minimum clock rate fast enough that the output state of each dynamic gate is used or refreshed before the charge in the output capacitance leaks out enough to cause the digital state of the output to change, during the part of the clock cycle that the output is not being actively driven.

Static logic has no minimum clock rate—the clock can be paused indefinitely. While it may seem that doing nothing for long periods of time is not particularly useful, it leads to three advantages:
 being able to pause a system at any time makes debugging and testing much easier, enabling techniques such as single stepping.
 being able to run a system at extremely low clock rates allows low-power electronics to run longer on a given battery.
 a fully-static system can instantly resume exactly where it left off; a person doesn't have to wait for the system to boot up or...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_134 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Day spa

A day spa is a business that provides a variety of services for the purpose of improving health, beauty, and relaxation through personal care treatments such as massages and facials.  The number of day spas in the US almost doubled in the two years from 2002 to 2004, to 8,734, according to the International Spa Association, and by 2020 there were 21,560 spas across the United States, according to Statista.

Differences from beauty salon and destination spa
A day spa is different from a beauty salon, in that it contains facilities such as a sauna, pool, steam room, or whirlpool that guests may use in addition to their treatment.

A day spa is also different from a destination spa, as no overnight accommodation is provided.  In contrast, a destination spa offers similar services integrated into packages that may include diet, exercise programs, instruction on wellness, life coaching, yoga, tai chi, and accommodations in which participants reside for the duration of their stay. It may also function as a day spa, if it allows day access to patrons who are not guests of the resort.

Medspa

A medspa, also known as a medical spa, is a spa that provides the client with medical spa services. Medspas specialize in non-surgical aesthetic services, including laser hair removal and medical-grade skin therapies. The three most popular procedures at medspas, according to the American Med Spa Association, are: neuromodulators (to soften facial muscle activity and reduce wrinkles, such as Botox), hyaluronic acid fillers (temporary skin fillers, such as Juvederm & Restylane), and microneedling (to help with skin tightening and the removal of acne scars). Body shaping and contouring account for a 19% share of the global medical spa market, according to one industry report.

They are operated by licensed medical professionals, but generally look and feel like a boutique personal service.  In 2010, there were 1,600 medspas in the US generating $1.1 billion in revenue ($700,000 per medspa on average); by 2018, there were over 5,000 medspas generating $7–8 billion in revenue ($1.4 million per medspa on average). The 2018 profit margin for medspas was 29%. The number was expected to grow to over 10,000 medspas by 2023. As of April 2022, the United States accounted for 37.7% of the global medspa market, which was projected in one study reported by CNBC to reach $25.9 billion by 2026.

Treatments

Treatments that may be provided include body massage, hair, foot massage, facials, waxing, microdermabrasion, body treatments, manicures, pedicures, and aromatherapy.

See also
Spa

References

Further reading
Carol Clinton, MD & Sara Shikhman, Esq. (2022), Medspa Confidential, , 

 
Therapy
Balneotherapy
Bathing
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-7 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. I hope you don't mind, I have a bit of a laundry list to go through today. Do you want me to just dive in or is there something you want to address first?

Doctor: No problem at all! Why don’t you go ahead and tell me what’s been on your mind lately?

Patient: Well, first off, I’ve been having trouble sleeping lately. It’s not so much falling asleep, but I’ll wake up around 2 or 3 in the morning and then I just can’t drift off again. I thought it might just be the change in season, but it’s been happening for a few months now.

Doctor: That definitely sounds frustrating. Has anything else changed for you lately—stress at work, changes in your daily routine, or perhaps something else on your mind that might be contributing?

Patient: Work’s actually about the same as it’s ever been, maybe a bit more emotionally heavy some weeks. I end up thinking a lot about my caseload, especially after meetings with my clients and their families. There’s a lot of paperwork to do after hours, making sure everyone’s getting the support they need transitioning back into the community. My supervisor insists we all keep a balance between work and home, but easier said than done, right?

Doctor: Absolutely—it sounds like your job keeps you really busy and invested in your clients’ wellbeing. Are you finding at least some time to decompress when you’re not working? Any particular techniques or routines you use?

Patient: I do try. I’ll call my daughter in Boston a couple of times a week, sometimes she calls just to check on me though I know she’s busy with her own family. I’ve started taking evening walks near the high school field—getting out in the fresh air helps a little. And I still catch up with my ukulele group at the community hall, which is nice for keeping some connection to the old neighborhood. But when I come home, sometimes the house just feels awfully quiet these days.

Doctor: I’m glad you have some support—family and friends are so important. Given the quiet at home, do you ever feel lonely or down, or is it more just a sense of restlessness at night?

Patient: Hm, I think it’s a bit of both. Since Emi passed, evenings just haven’t felt the same. It’s funny, you think you get used to being alone, but some habits die hard. I find myself setting out two cups for tea sometimes or reaching for her side of the bed without thinking. And especially with obon coming up, that sense of someone missing feels sharper. But I try to keep busy—for the most part, it works.

Doctor: I’m very sorry to hear about your loss. Grief can carry on in unexpected ways, even years later. Would you like to talk more about how you’ve been coping, or would you prefer we focus on the sleep concerns today?

Patient: Maybe a bit of both—I’m realizing now how intertwined it all is. The trouble is, I can’t just flip a switch and stop thinking about things in the middle of the night. I go back over conversations from the week, especially when one of the people I supervise is struggling. Makes my mind race about whether I’ve said the right thing, given them the right resources. Sometimes I even dream about case notes or parole reports, if you can believe it.

Doctor: That’s completely understandable. You carry a lot of responsibility. For the sleep, do you ever use any medications or herbal remedies to help you get rest?

Patient: I haven’t tried anything, no. I’m wary of starting a prescription unless we’ve explored other options first. My mother used to make me mugicha before bed, but I haven’t made it much these days. My daughter tells me to keep lavender oil on the pillow, but I don’t know that it works for me.

Doctor: We definitely don’t have to jump straight to sleep aids. Before that, let’s see if we can fine-tune your night routine. Have you tried winding down with something relaxing—listening to gentle music or maybe reading a book instead of checking work emails?

Patient: I do listen to some folk songs or play a bit before bed—sometimes old Japanese melodies, other times things from the sixties I grew up with. I’d rather not read case reports late at night, but sometimes that’s when it’s quiet enough to focus. Maybe I need to put firmer boundaries there.

Doctor: Setting those boundaries at night is important, absolutely. Let’s see if we can help you create a stronger routine that separates your work from your personal time, so your mind gets the signal that it’s time to rest. Would it help if we plan out a ritual together? And, if you’re comfortable, it might be worth talking to someone—a counselor or support group for people who work in similar roles about secondary trauma or burnout.

Patient: That might be a good idea. I sometimes talk shop with a few folks in the field over lunch, that does help. The department encourages us to reach out, but sometimes you just feel like everyone else is managing so well and you don't want to add to anyone's burden. But maybe a therapist outside of work would give me a new perspective.

Doctor: Many people in high-responsibility, helping professions feel that way. But you’re not alone—these feelings are common and completely legitimate. I can refer you to some local counselors who specialize in supporting those in community service or corrections roles if you’d like.

Patient: Yes, please. I’d appreciate that. Is it covered, though? I know my plan sometimes gets complicated because of where things are processed. Even though I’ve always done my taxes here, there have been times I needed some extra paperwork, especially for services outside the standard network.

Doctor: I can help you navigate that. Sometimes those insurance issues do crop up, especially if there’s any confusion about residency or eligibility, but usually after a quick call we can get it sorted. If there’s anything tricky, I’ll put you in touch with our social services desk.

Patient: That would be great, thank you. The last time, I needed to explain my story a few times—most people don’t quite know what to do when they see two birth certificates on record. I keep having to reassure them it's all legal—just a matter of being born one place and starting life someplace else because my parents moved for my father’s university job. It’s nothing unusual, but it seems to tangle up the forms every so often.

Doctor: That does sound frustrating. I can add a note to your file directly, so if anyone in the practice is reviewing your insurance again, they’ll have the context spelled out.

Patient: Thank you, that helps. I sometimes miss having someone else around to spot these little bureaucratic headaches, if you know what I mean. Emi was much more organized about paperwork than I am.

Doctor: It’s completely understandable. Managing everything on your own can be a lot, especially with memories attached. Is there anyone else—friend or family—who can check in with you regularly?

Patient: My daughter’s always looking after me from a distance, fussing over whether I’m eating enough vegetables or walking every day. My friends from the local community center keep me in the loop too—they always make sure I’m not celebrating New Year or the festivals alone. I try to pay it forward where I can—hosting tea for the volunteers or potlucks at work, that kind of thing.

Doctor: Maintaining those ties can do wonders for mental and physical health. You mentioned walking near the high school—how often do you manage that, and do you ever feel any pain or shortness of breath while you’re out?

Patient: Most days after work, before dinner. I know the neighborhood like the back of my hand after forty years here. If anything, it’s my knees that get a little stiff, especially if I’m in court or at the community center all day. But I’ve never really been one to sit still, so I try to keep moving.

Doctor: Glad to hear you’re keeping active. Anything else physically—changes in appetite, unexplained weight loss, new aches, or headaches?

Patient: Appetite’s about the same. I eat a lot of veggies, rice, a bit of chicken—I haven’t had much taste for beef since I was a kid. I did notice I’ve dropped a few pounds since last spring, but I chalk that up to having to cook for just myself now. And I make sure to practice my stretches every morning—my aunt taught me some old routines, says they’ll keep me nimble for another decade.

Doctor: Stretching is excellent. I can tell you have some cherished routines. Do you ever feel unsafe during your client visits or out in the field?

Patient: Most of the time I feel fine—I know the community, and years on this job have taught me which situations to be extra careful in. Sometimes our clients get agitated or frustrated, but I’ve got colleagues to back me up if we’re meeting somewhere less predictable. My department does a good job keeping us connected, and our team texts if we’re running late or needing backup. Honestly, sometimes my biggest worry is whether I’ll remember everyone’s names and stories. There are so many overlapping cases it can get overwhelming.

Doctor: I hear you. That’s a lot to juggle. Have you ever felt so stressed from work that it led to any physical symptoms—digestive issues, headaches, or feeling on edge?

Patient: I get the occasional headache, usually after a particularly tough day or if I’ve been sitting at the desk too long into the evening. I try to offset it with some green tea and a quick walk outside. I wouldn’t say it’s related to a particular incident at work—just the general stress of the responsibilities. I do make time to attend the annual workshops at headquarters, which helps me keep up with the best practices.

Doctor: It sounds like you have solid coping mechanisms in place. I would like to check your blood pressure and follow up on the weight loss to make sure we’re not missing anything clinical. Have you been screened recently for diabetes or cholesterol?

Patient: Yes, the wellness clinic at City Hall did a full panel a few months back at our annual staff health fair. My cholesterol’s a little high but within range, and blood sugar’s fine. I bring a bento for lunch, so I feel like I’m watching what I eat better than some of my colleagues—one too many vending machine snacks in this line of work!

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Maintaining those habits is important. Would you like me to order repeat labs just to ensure nothing’s changed, or do you feel comfortable waiting until your next scheduled check?

Patient: Why don’t we order them, just to be safe? The peace of mind is worth it. I still remember Emi’s words—better to be ten minutes early and double-check than to miss something.

Doctor: I agree, an ounce of prevention goes a long way. I’ll have labs scheduled for you. Before you go, is there anything else you’re concerned about—aside from sleep and stress?

Patient: Honestly, doctor, apart from the sleep and the quiet house, I feel like things are steady. I look forward to my lunchtime visit to the little Japanese grocery out by the train station—it’s nice to pick up some familiar flavors, reminds me of where my parents lived before they moved here. Makes me feel just a bit more at home, especially on days when the world feels big and impersonal.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. It’s important to stay connected to those traditions. If you notice any changes in mood, energy, or health, please reach out. And if you have trouble sleeping despite our interventions, let’s touch base sooner rather than later.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate you listening—it always helps, even just to talk things through. And thank you for understanding my situation. Sometimes having a bit of my background in the file makes life so much easier when things with the paperwork or coverage come up.

Doctor: My pleasure, truly. I’ll get that counseling information to you, and I’ll note the insurance details for the support staff. Take care of yourself, and let me know if you need anything between now and your follow-up.

Patient: Will do. Have a good day, Doctor.

Doctor: You too. See you at your next appointment.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-54 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey, thanks for hopping on this call, I really appreciate it. Most mornings I’m all over the place replying to emails, trying to keep up with our sponsors, but I wanted to give you my full attention for this project review.

Other: Of course! I know how packed your days can get, especially since you have all those community events to juggle. Honestly, I don’t know how you keep all these campaigns running so smoothly.

Target: Years of practice, I suppose. You know, back when I started, juggling pledges, silent auction lots, and VIP donor lists was a major feat. Now, it’s almost second nature. I do rely a lot on my admin, though—I always joke that I couldn’t get anything done without Maya’s organizational magic.

Other: Maya's legendary around here! By the way, before we dig into the donor strategy, do you have a minute to talk about the Yuman Outreach Initiative? Some of the partners from last year wanted to check in.

Target: Absolutely, it’s close to my heart. I grew up in Somerton, just outside San Luis, so community work means a lot to me. We center a lot of our outreach efforts around the Yuman Heritage Festival each October—it’s amazing the turn-out from both tribal elders and youth. That event always reminds me why I do what I do.

Other: That's so great to hear. The festival gets rave reviews from all ages! Speaking of which, did you ever envision yourself leading something with such reach and responsibility when you were in, say, grad school?

Target: Oh, if you told the younger me at law school that I’d spend evenings planning banquets and meeting with donors instead of prepping courtroom briefs, I’m not sure I would’ve believed you. But then again, I always did love being the one to set things in motion, even back when I was running student drives. It was the organizing, the paperwork, the strategic planning… all the stuff other people dread!

Other: It sounds like you transitioned from legal briefs to benefit galas pretty seamlessly. I guess handling contracts with sponsors isn’t that far off from negotiating settlements.

Target: You’d be surprised how many skills transfer. I might quote research from the annual reports instead of case law, but persuasion’s still key. And you know, people skills go a long way when you’re asking a room full of guests to raise their paddles for the foundation.

Other: On that note, how do you prepare your team for those big nights? I’ve seen you manage last-minute changes at the gala like it’s nothing. Secrets to share?

Target: Honestly, it’s about setting expectations up front and then rolling with whatever comes. I tell everyone—those little emergencies, like a caterer being late or a speaker running over time, they’re part of the thrill. I used to stress more, but now I bring a spare pair of flats, some lipstick in my purse, and a smile for when the cameras start flashing. Oh, and always a quick check in the ladies’ room for a moment of peace, even if it’s just thirty seconds!

Other: I love that. So, shifting gears slightly, for our new partnership program, the regional office suggested we look into candidates who can navigate multicultural communities. You seem uniquely qualified to help choose the right folks to lead these teams. Any advice?

Target: I’d say look for people who don’t just show up on fiesta days. You want folks who know that at some gatherings, the conversation is in Quechan and at others, folks prefer English. It’s the little things—understanding who’s going to bring fry bread or who’ll offer a prayer at the blessing—it means you’re plugged in, not just performing. My grandma taught me early on how to carry myself at the tribal council meetings—always listen first, and never forget to thank your elders.

Other: That’s really insightful. Are there any younger community members that you’re mentoring right now, maybe to take the reins eventually?

Target: I work with a few college students through our internship program every summer. They always remind me how fast things change! A couple aspire to become attorneys themselves, but most are interested in nonprofit work. We talk a lot about how they can use their background for advocacy, whether it’s drafting grant applications or organizing a small walk-a-thon. I make sure they feel like their perspective—rooted in our culture and traditions—matters just as much as what they learned in class.

Other: Such valuable mentorship. I heard at last year’s Heritage Festival they started the day with Bird Songs, and a few of the students you’re guiding helped with logistics. Did you encourage that?

Target: I did! Setting up for Bird Songs takes coordination—you need to make sure there’s space for dancers and the singers’ seating is arranged according to protocol. That morning, I remember reminding the teens to respect the circle, and even though they were new to it, they caught on quickly. Makes me proud.

Other: When you’re working on donor cultivation, do you ever feel like your academic background makes negotiations easier, or do you find yourself having to translate a lot from what you learned in grad school?

Target: There’s definitely some translating! Legal training helps, since reading a funder’s terms of agreement isn’t so different from parsing statutes. But sometimes, jargon gets in the way—donors want to hear heart, not legalese. I think the biggest asset from my education was learning how to synthesize a lot of info into a compelling story, so when I speak at board meetings or write up those annual reports, it all comes together. You can only get so much from textbooks, though; real-world practice is everything.

Other: It shows. Oh, speaking of which, there’s interest from the library foundation in Tempe. They want suggestions for their capital campaign, and your experience is exactly what they’re looking for.

Target: I’d be happy to consult. I helped coordinate the new children’s resource center fundraising efforts a few years back, so I know the territory. Plus, it’s always a bonus to spend some time in Tempe—my undergrad is from there, so it’s full circle for me.

Other: That’s fantastic. For our progress report, can you break down how you prioritize donors for the raffle at next month’s event?

Target: Absolutely. First, I segment the donor database—prior attendees, new faces, and those who’ve given above the mid-tier threshold. I assign major gifts officers to follow up with people who regularly contribute at the sustaining level. It’s helpful that many recognize me from past events—I always wave them over personally to our “Gratitude Table.” Even the ones who are too shy for the spotlight tend to show up for the fry bread. My cousin’s recipe is a draw in itself.

Other: People around here still talk about that fry bread! Do you find being part of a tribal family affects your approach to fundraising compared to some of your counterparts?

Target: In some ways, definitely. Family ties and long-standing relationships are everything in our community; word of mouth is more powerful than any email campaign. When I’m calling elders to invite them, it’s less about formalities and more about respect—making sure their preferences are honored, that transportation’s arranged, and that we acknowledge tribal leadership publicly at the event. My mom always says you never start with business, you start by asking how someone’s garden’s growing.

Other: That’s wisdom I should keep in mind! Quick question: How do you make time for continuing education? I know you’ve been to quite a few workshops lately.

Target: It’s a balancing act. I carve out hours for webinars, especially the ones that overlap with donor relations and tax law updates. Sometimes I have to log in from my phone between site visits. Last month I attended a hybrid conference for nonprofit professionals—sat in the front row for a panel on community-based fundraising. The panelists joked that the best fundraisers are the ones who still remember the difference between a 501(c)(3) and a 501(c)(4) even after a long night of data entry! Keeping credentials up-to-date is crucial in this line of work.

Other: I wish more people were as diligent as you about that. In your experience, is there anything specific you’d pass on to those just starting out, from an educational perspective?

Target: I’d tell them that formal schooling gives you a framework, but you need to keep adding on. Certifications, summer programs—anything that helps you stay relevant. And, don’t be afraid to ask questions, even if you feel overqualified for the basics. I’ve spent twelve-hour days buried in continuing ed modules just to keep up; there’s no such thing as being “done” with professional development.

Other: Have you considered teaching a workshop yourself? With your resume, you’d have a full house in no time.

Target: I’ve actually guest lectured a few times—once for a nonprofit management class and another for a seminar on grant-writing. It’s fun, but prepping the lesson plans reminds me how much is always evolving in this field. The students seem surprised when I share fundraising stories that tie in legal and cultural knowledge, rather than just spreadsheets. It’s all connected.

Other: I’m glad you mention culture. Do you ever wish there were more opportunities to infuse heritage into broader fundraising practices?

Target: All the time. When you can blend tradition—like offering prayer songs before a dinner—with modern fundraising strategies, it creates this tangible respect for both worlds. My hope is to see more of that, especially with so many of our community members moving to cities. Bridging who we are with what we do professionally is powerful. For instance, at the boardroom table, I might pull out a metaphor from Coyote stories to make a point. It resonates differently than a PowerPoint slide ever could.

Other: I’d love to see that approach catch on! By the way, you must be swamped, especially since you always seem to be “on”—have you ever taken a full weekend just for yourself?

Target: Not recently! But I try to squeeze in breaks between events. Sometimes I’ll walk out to the edge of the river before a campaign launches and sit for a moment. My phone’s always buzzing, but for those few minutes, it’s just me and the sound of the water. It helps me reset, especially when I know a big donor meeting is coming up and I need to step into my host role—clipboard in one hand, donation envelopes in the other.

Other: Sounds like a ritual. Last thing before I let you go—our HR asked if you’d provide a quick reference for our intern, Ana? She mentioned you helped her prep for her JD admissions interviews.

Target: I’d be happy to! Ana’s incredibly bright. I remember going through those interviews myself and feeling overwhelmed. Back then, representation from our tribal communities in professional programs was slim. I’m glad to see it’s changing, even if only slowly. I try to reassure students like Ana—they belong in those rooms, and the work they do will pave the way for more of our voices in positions of leadership.

Other: You’re making a real difference, both in the numbers and in the culture. I really appreciate you taking the time today. Is there anything else I can support you with ahead of the donor meetings?

Target: No, thank you for asking. Just keep us in your thoughts for good weather and a full guest list! With luck, we’ll hit our fundraising goal and have enough left in the budget for another community feast—my aunt’s already volunteered to bring tamales.

Other: Please save me a plate! I’ll be sure to check in next week with updates from headquarters. Thanks again, and talk soon.

Target: Talk soon! Take care.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-1 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today. I’ve had this raspy feeling in my throat for a few weeks, and I figured it’s better not to let it go. I talk all day for work, so even minor changes make me nervous.

Doctor: Good morning! I’m glad you came in, especially since your voice is so important in your daily routines. Can you describe when you first noticed the raspy feeling? Any changes in how you use your voice lately?

Patient: It first cropped up about three weeks ago, probably mid-March. No big speech marathons or presentations, just my regular session load. I do a lot of one-on-one consultations, mostly with kids. I did have a slight cold earlier, but no fever, and the throat thing stuck around after the sniffles cleared.

Doctor: Understood. Do you feel any pain when you swallow, or is it just the raspiness? Any coughing or trouble breathing?

Patient: There’s no pain as such, just some scratchiness after a full day of talking. My voice gets a little hoarse by the end of the week, but otherwise breathing and swallowing are fine. No coughing beyond the usual clearing my throat.

Doctor: That’s helpful, thanks. You said you often work with children—do you find yourself raising your voice or speaking over noise often?

Patient: Oh, absolutely. Sometimes it feels like I’m wrangling a group of energetic puppies. Even with just two or three kids in the room, the volume can spike up. Occupational hazard, I guess.

Doctor: Let’s talk about your usual workday. Do you find yourself needing to project your voice for extended periods, or is it more conversational speech?

Patient: It’s a blend, but mostly conversational. I model articulation and language, so I need to be clear and precise. Funny enough, a lot of adults assume I sit and listen all day, but in reality, I do more actual talking than most of my clients. By the end, I’ve run through articulation drills, stories, and lots of repetition.

Doctor: That makes sense, and with so much vocal demand, it’s no wonder you’re sensitive to minor changes. When you’re not working, do you have any hobbies that put extra strain on your voice, like singing or public speaking?

Patient: Not really. I’m more likely to be found with a book or out for a hike. Karaoke is not for me—my family would agree! Outside of work, my voice actually gets a welcome rest.

Doctor: I’m glad you get some downtime. Have you experienced anything similar before—raspiness or voice changes that didn’t go away quickly?

Patient: Occasionally, but not like this. Usually, if I get hoarse, a weekend of quiet sorts me out. Now, even after Easter break, the roughness hung around. It’s as if my vocal cords forgot to bounce back.

Doctor: Since your symptoms have lingered, and given the nature of your profession, it’s worth taking a closer look. Before we move on, do you have any known allergies or medical conditions I should keep in mind?

Patient: I’m lucky on that front—nothing in the way of major allergies. No chronic illnesses either, apart from the old case of teenage asthma which disappeared decades ago. I keep up with routine check-ups, especially since my work requires a clean bill of health.

Doctor: That’s reassuring. Any recent stress, either at work or personally? Stress can sometimes affect the voice, too.

Patient: The usual pressures—report-writing season is always a scramble. And there’s the ever-growing waitlist, which feels like a mountain some days. But nothing new or dramatic. On the personal front, life’s steady. Can’t say I’m juggling a whole family or anything. I spend my evenings catching up on crosswords or volunteering on weekends.

Doctor: It sounds like you’ve got a balance, even with work demands. Just out of interest, do you live alone?

Patient: I do. No partner, no children, and the only companion is the neighbor’s cat who visits my porch for snacks. Never got around to the whole marriage chapter, if I’m honest. I like having my own quiet space at the end of long days of conversation.

Doctor: Understood, thank you for sharing that. Let’s circle back to your vocal issues. As someone who teaches articulation and language, I’m guessing you know about vocal hygiene, but can you run me through your daily habits—hydration, warming up, that sort of thing?

Patient: Absolutely. I always have a water bottle handy—my grad school instructors were relentless about that. I do some light humming and scales before the day starts, and I try to stay mindful of posture and projection. But you know, after a full workday, even the best routines can fall by the wayside.

Doctor: You’re clearly well-informed. Any recent changes in your environment? Dry air, new cleaning products at work, office renovations?

Patient: There was an office repaint about two months ago, but the smell faded long before this started. No new cleaning agents that I can tell. I do have a desk under a vent, so maybe the dry air is a factor.

Doctor: Dry air can definitely contribute—especially when speaking for long hours. Has your voice affected your job performance, or are your clients noticing?

Patient: Thankfully, my young clients are more focused on the games than on my voice quality. Colleagues have noted I sound a bit rough some afternoons, but nobody’s asked if I’m sick. It’s more an internal worry—I depend on my voice, so I feel every change.

Doctor: Completely understandable. Let’s do a quick recap. You’re a speech therapist working with young clients. You use your voice professionally every day, and recently, you’ve had persistent raspy hoarseness without pain, cough, or swallowing issues. No known allergies or chronic health issues now. And your home life is pretty calm. Is all that accurate?

Patient: That sums it up. Talking is both my job and, in a way, my calling. When my voice is off, I can’t help but fret about letting down my clients—or myself, really.

Doctor: That’s very human. By any chance, with your clinical background, have you performed a self-assessment? Any visible redness or nodules on your vocal cords you’ve noticed?

Patient: I admit I peeked in with a mirror and decent light at home—one perk of having a headlamp from my grad school days! Didn’t spot anything worrying, though obviously it’s not the same as a proper exam. No swelling or redness that I can see.

Doctor: Ingenious! It sounds like you’re taking a proactive approach. Are there any family histories of voice issues, thyroid problems, or similar medical concerns?

Patient: Not that I’m aware of. My family is mostly hardy, except for my dad’s hearing loss—nothing related to the voice. He always said I inherited “northern European vocal cords,” whatever that means. I guess that means I should be able to belt out folk songs at a pub, but even then, I was the reserved one during family singalongs.

Doctor: Folk songs, huh? I take it you have British or Irish roots?

Patient: We’re straight out of Cincinnati, generations back, but with ancestry that’s mostly from various corners of Europe—Germany, the British Isles, a little Scandinavian thrown in. We look rather classic Midwest, if you know what I mean.

Doctor: When you were getting your training, did you ever have to account for any language or accent challenges? Sometimes clinicians have to overcome their own dialect tendencies.

Patient: Not really—I sound pretty much like standard American broadcast, as my professors teased. A benefit for my clients, perhaps, and fitting for the Midwest suburbs. It’s been useful when navigating paperwork, too.

Doctor: You mentioned paperwork—do you handle a lot of administrative tasks related to your field?

Patient: Yes, loads. The more years you work, the more time you spend documenting goals and progress. I sometimes joke that I spend more time typing than speaking now, even with all the therapy sessions.

Doctor: You mentioned being in this field for a while. How long have you been practicing?

Patient: Well, let’s just say graduate school was almost three decades ago. I started out before smart boards were a thing! I still remember my first job offer—in the fall after the Gulf War ended, to give a hint.

Doctor: That does put things in perspective. So, you’d be in your late fifties now?

Patient: That’s right—I just celebrated another trip around the sun last September. Mid-September, to be exact. I always get the first slice of apple pie at family get-togethers—my birthday falls right in prime pie season.

Doctor: Apple pie season sounds wonderful! May I ask, how did you mark your birthday last year?

Patient: Quietly, just how I like it—spent the day at my favorite bakery, then a rooftop jazz night. There was a Friday the 13th spin on the event, which made it more memorable. My birthday landed on a lucky day last year, if you’re superstitious!

Doctor: That’s very memorable! Let’s pivot back to your health. Any travel recently, domestically or internationally?

Patient: No international trips—I haven’t left the States in years. Things just kept me busy here. My U.S. friends sometimes joke I’m more American than they are. I vote every chance I get, haven’t missed an election since I became eligible. That citizenship oath I took ages ago made sure I take it seriously.

Doctor: That’s wonderful civic engagement. Have you ever had vaccinations or tests done abroad that I should be aware of?

Patient: No, all my records are local. Everything from my school immunizations in the Midwest to recent flu shots is all here. I stick to the regulations—one less thing to worry about.

Doctor: Have you noticed any other symptoms? Weight loss, night sweats, anything out of the ordinary?

Patient: Nothing particularly alarming. Maybe very slight weight fluctuations, but honestly, that’s more from switching between soup and comfort food weather. With spring finally here, my appetite’s back to normal.

Doctor: How’s your general activity level? Are you able to exercise, go for walks, anything like that?

Patient: Still up and at it! I go for brisk walks most evenings—keeps me limber and clears my head after a room full of tongue-twisters and word games.

Doctor: Good to hear you’re staying active. Let’s talk about sleep—any issues with waking up hoarse, or is it mainly after work?

Patient: It’s mostly by the end of a long day. Mornings, my voice is clearer, unless I’ve talked too much the day before.

Doctor: Have you used anything over-the-counter to ease your symptoms—lozenges, sprays, anything like that?

Patient: I’ve relied on warm water and honey after a tough day—a trick I teach my clients, too. I avoid medicated sprays; I’d rather not mask symptoms if something’s underlying.

Doctor: Before we wrap up, any big life changes lately—moves, job shifts, anything we haven’t covered?

Patient: Life’s been steady-state. Same job, same apartment. Friends tease me that I’ll be the last one standing at our workplace’s thirty-year reunion. I do keep meaning to try something new, like joining a book club, but it hasn’t happened yet.

Doctor: I think you’re doing well looking after yourself. For now, I’d recommend continuing your vocal care—hydration, breaks when possible, and perhaps a humidifier in your workspace to offset the dry air from the vent. If the raspy feeling persists another two weeks, I’d like to refer you to an ENT for a thorough scope assessment. Sound reasonable?

Patient: Absolutely, that’s what I’d do for a client, after all. I’ll keep tracking my symptoms and let you know if anything changes.

Doctor: Great. Take care, and please reach out if you develop pain, difficulty swallowing, or notice other changes before then.

Patient: Will do, doctor. Thanks for listening—not just to my medical complaints, but to my rambling too.

Doctor: That’s what I’m here for. Have a wonderful rest of your spring!

Patient: Thanks, I’m off to practice what I preach—“rest your voice when you can.” See you soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-79 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning. Sorry, do I sit here?

Doctor: Yes, please, have a seat. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I'm hoping to get a couple of things checked out. Lately, I've had this odd pressure behind my eyes, almost like a sinus headache, but it’s lingering for over a week. Also, I’ve been feeling a little run down lately—low energy and some mild dizziness.

Doctor: I see. Have you noticed any congestion, changes in your vision, or fevers with this pressure?

Patient: No fever. Slight congestion now and then, but nothing major. My vision’s fine, though when I get the dizziness, there’s a bit of fuzziness for a moment. It always clears quickly.

Doctor: And when did these symptoms begin?

Patient: Maybe a week and a half ago, around the time I started sending out more resumes, actually… So about ten or eleven days?

Doctor: Understood. Is there any chance you’ve been exposed to anyone with a cold or flu recently?

Patient: Not really. I mostly keep to myself these days, spending a lot of time at home in my apartment. I do go to the library to look up job postings, but I haven’t had any close contact with people who were obviously sick.

Doctor: You mentioned sending out resumes. Are you in between jobs now?

Patient: Yeah, I’m not on anyone’s payroll right now, so the job hunt is pretty full-on at the moment.

Doctor: What kind of work do you do, if you don’t mind me asking?

Patient: I used to handle some safety projects for manufacturing lines… anything from ergonomics checks to risk assessments in factories. My focus is on making industrial workplaces safer, so I have a background in engineering and a bit of architectural planning for workflow.

Doctor: That’s fascinating—working in those environments can be quite demanding, both physically and mentally. Were your last assignments particularly stressful?

Patient: My last stint had tight deadlines, but since that ended, most of my stress is just around finding the next opportunity and making sure my qualifications still look strong. Sometimes, I feel like my credentials as a health and safety guy are a tough sell, but it’s what I do best.

Doctor: You mentioned being run down—are you sleeping well? Have you had any drastic changes in your diet or exercise pattern since your work ended?

Patient: Sleep’s not great, to be honest. I tend to stay up late reading—sometimes technical manuals, sometimes just scrolling. My exercise is sporadic; sometimes I walk to get groceries in Chinatown, other times I just stay in.

Doctor: Do you have any known allergies?

Patient: Nothing official. Seafood never quite agreed with me—just makes me a little queasy. No rashes or breathing issues though.

Doctor: Any history of chronic conditions in your family?

Patient: Some high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes, but mostly in older relatives back home.

Doctor: Back home—you mean abroad?

Patient: Yeah, the rest of my family is still in Asia. I’m here on a long-term residency, but I’m not holding a blue passport, if you know what I mean.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. Do you have access to health insurance at the moment?

Patient: Right now, I’m on the state marketplace. No work-sponsored plan, of course.

Doctor: And just so I can confirm your records, could you tell me your preferred pronouns?

Patient: I use he/him, but “mister” suits me fine.

Doctor: Great, Mr. Lin. Anything else besides the pressure and fatigue?

Patient: I have had some trouble with forgetfulness. Like, last week I was on the phone to set up an online payment, and I could barely remember my own card details. It starts with 35—then three 7s and 8-9-8-9, two fives, four six, and ending with 65-3. I had to look it up. I don’t know—maybe my memory’s just off because of the stress.

Doctor: That’s a helpful example, and actually, feeling mentally foggy can be tied to stress, fatigue, or even sinus congestion. Have you felt down or had little interest in your typical activities?

Patient: I’d say a bit, yeah. Haven’t seen my friends for weeks. Sometimes I just binge engineering YouTube channels instead of going out for coffee. I’ll admit, I sometimes wish it were easier fitting in around here.

Doctor: That’s understandable—a big adjustment, settling in where you might feel like you stand out. Any feelings of discrimination or exclusion?

Patient: Not outright. I’m used to being the odd one out. I’ve got that east Asian look, so people sometimes assume I’m not local—ask where I’m from, that sort of thing. I don’t take it personally, but it does get tiring.

Doctor: That can take a toll over time. Have you considered connecting with any community groups for support or networking?

Patient: Not seriously. I tried a couple of expat meetups, but they weren’t quite my thing. I might give it another shot if I keep feeling this out of place.

Doctor: Well, these symptoms could be stemming from a combination of mild sinusitis, lack of quality sleep, and some stress—especially under these circumstances. I want to check your blood pressure today and perhaps run a basic blood panel. Would that be alright?

Patient: Yes, that’s fine. I’m open to whatever will help me feel normal again.

Doctor: Good. While we do that, do you have any questions about medications or supplements?

Patient: Just one thing. Sometimes, I buy vitamins online—usually all the labels are in English, but some are in Chinese or Japanese too. Is there anything I should avoid?

Doctor: Stick with reputable brands, preferably those certified for sale in this country. If you are unsure, bring them in next time. And with personal details or cards, just be careful with where you enter anything like that—especially online or over the phone.

Patient: Will do. I try to stay safe, even if I’m not a local on paper, you know?

Doctor: That’s sensible. Let’s get your vitals checked and see about that blood panel. If you have any new symptoms or your mental health worsens, please reach out. And don’t hesitate to come back if job hunting becomes overwhelming.

Patient: Thanks doctor, I appreciate you taking the time.

Doctor: You’re welcome, Mr. Lin. Take care, and I’ll see you soon with results.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-15 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! I’m working on a school project for grade 10, and I could use some help brainstorming ideas. I live in Missouri, so maybe something local would be good. Any thoughts?
Chatbot: Hello! I’d be happy to help you with your grade 10 project. Since you live in Missouri, you could focus on something related to the state’s history or natural environment. Is there a specific subject or area you’re interested in—such as science, social studies, or literature?
Person: I’m leaning toward something in environmental science. Maybe a project about rivers in Missouri or how weather patterns here impact agriculture. By the way, I’ve never been married, and I’m still under 15 years old, so it's not like I have a ton of life experience to draw from!
Chatbot: That’s totally understandable, and your idea is great! Missouri is known for its rivers, especially the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. You could research how these rivers affect the ecosystem and agriculture in the state. Another angle might be studying the local weather’s impact on farming. Do you have access to any field resources or local libraries?
Person: I do! Actually, my parents are always encouraging me to use the public library in my town. Since I was born abroad of American parent(s), I’ve lived in a couple of other countries, but now that we’re settled here in Missouri, the library has become one of my favorite places.
Chatbot: That’s wonderful to hear! Being born abroad of American parents must give you a unique perspective on things. Drawing on your international experience could even set your project apart. Have you noticed any environmental differences between Missouri and the places where you lived before?
Person: Yes, definitely. The climate can be really different, and the types of crops grown are not the same. Also, weather here in Missouri can change so fast! Oh, and just so you know, my date of birth is 22 December 2009, so I won't be driving myself to research sites anytime soon. But my folks help out with transportation.
Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your date of birth! You have plenty of time to explore these topics. Since you have your parents’ support, maybe you could arrange a visit to a local farm or conservation site. Interviews with local farmers or environmental experts could also enrich your project.
Person: That’s a great idea. We actually know someone who owns a farm out by Jefferson City. I’m still in grade 10, but everyone’s always telling me hands-on learning is the best. Also, with my citizenship status, I sometimes get asked about where I'm from, so it's cool to blend those experiences into the project.
Chatbot: Absolutely—your background and experience can provide valuable insight. And being in grade 10, you're at the perfect stage to start thinking about how local and global issues like agriculture differ. Would you like some help drafting interview questions or organizing your research?
Person: Yes, that would be awesome. I’m still figuring out how to structure everything. My school gave us some examples, but I want to make mine stand out. By the way, since we have to use digital sources for citations, and the library lets us check out devices using a credit card, can you help me list what info I need? My credit card number is 5469367632016321, in case I have to register it for access to certain materials.
Chatbot: Of course! For digital library registrations, you will usually need your name, school-issued email, and sometimes a credit card for device check-out, just like the number you provided: 5469367632016321. Make sure to keep that information secure. For your research project, you might want to start with an introduction about Missouri’s rivers and a comparison with regions you’ve lived in due to being born abroad of American parent(s).
Person: Definitely. Comparing Missouri’s agriculture with other regions could be really interesting. I’ll note the basics: date of birth is 22 December 2009, grade 10, living in Missouri, and credit card number 5469367632016321—just like you said, have to keep things secure! Thanks for reminding me. For structure, should I do an introduction, then interviews, then my analysis, or mix it all together?
Chatbot: A clear structure helps a lot. I suggest starting with your introduction—mentioning your background, such as having never been married or under 15 years old and being in grade 10, living in Missouri, and being born abroad of American parent(s). Then describe your methodology (like interviews and field visits), present your findings, and finish with an analysis and conclusion. Including personal insights—like how your date of birth and experiences influence your view—can make it very compelling.
Person: Thanks for the advice! I’ll get started on drafting my introduction. Also, since the library might ask for my credit card number again—it’s 5469367632016321—I’ll have all my info ready. Might as well be prepared. Anything else you think I should include to make my research more impressive?
Chatbot: Including visuals such as maps or charts about Missouri’s rivers or the agricultural sector can really make your project stand out. Since you have such a unique background—born abroad of American parent(s), currently in grade 10, never married or under 15 years old, resident of Missouri, and your date of birth is 22 December 2009—make sure to highlight how these have shaped your perspective. Don’t forget to properly cite all sources. Is there anything else you need help organizing or editing?
Person: That’s super helpful! I feel a lot more confident now, and I’ll get working on my outline. If I run into trouble registering devices for research at the library with my card (5469367632016321), I’ll check back for advice. Thanks again!
Chatbot: My pleasure! Good luck with your project. If you need guidance with your outline, wording for interviews, or run into any issues with library services in Missouri, just let me know. I’m here to help!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-6 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, thanks for organizing this onboarding call. I got the invitation right on time—office clerks like me depend on those calendar reminders!

Other: Absolutely, glad it made it into your schedule. So, how’s your first week been so far working with us in the admin team?

Target: It’s been smooth, honestly. I’m used to balancing a dozen things at once, whether it’s answering emails, handling docs, or working the front desk. My last job was similar—kept me on my toes.

Other: Sounds like you’re already a pro at multitasking then! How long have you been in the office support field?

Target: Oh, it’s been going on maybe ten, eleven years now. Ever since I finished high school—I earned my diploma and started a month or two later in an entry-level position. I sort of worked my way up in admin from there.

Other: That’s impressive. The hands-on experience really matters in this line of work. Is there a particular part of the job you enjoy most?

Target: Honestly, I like being the person who sorts things out when everyone else is stumped. Like, no one can find that old invoice? I’ll dig it up. Data entry? Got it covered. If you need something tracked or scheduled, I’m your guy. Plus, I may not have gone past 12th grade, but I know my way around spreadsheets.

Other: Great attitude! Let’s talk collaboration tools—are you comfortable with our office software so far?

Target: No worries there. At my last gig, we did everything digitally. Scheduling, room bookings, time sheets, all that online now. My cellphone’s been a lifesaver more than once—though sometimes my personal number gets more work calls than I’d like!

Other: Haha, that’s the modern world, isn’t it? Hopefully you don’t have to give your number out too much, but if you ever need to be reached for something urgent outside hours, what’s the best way?

Target: I try to keep things separate, but if you ever really need to, you can reach me at nine four nine, five five two, two one zero two. I check it pretty often.

Other: Perfect, thanks for sharing that. Let’s switch gears—what brought you to this city? Are you local or did you relocate?

Target: Born and raised in Louisiana actually, part of the Houma community down there. But after graduation, my wife and I decided to seek out new opportunities on the West Coast, so we packed up and came out here. Been here ever since.

Other: Oh, wow, so you’re married? That’s wonderful! How long have you and your wife been together?

Target: Just hit seven years last spring. She’s my partner in everything, real solid support when things get hectic at work. She even helped me prep for this new job, actually.

Other: That’s great to hear, sounds like you two make a good team. I’ll bet the move was a big step for both of you, especially coming from a tight-knit Houma background.

Target: Oh yeah, family means a lot where I’m from. My dad taught me early to pitch in and help out whenever you can—something that stuck with me, especially in office settings like this.

Other: Makes sense. Speaking of community, do you still stay connected to your roots back home?

Target: Definitely. Most of my relatives are still there, and we keep in touch. There’s a big powwow every couple years, and I try to go back whenever there’s a family gathering or celebration. My wife loves the food, but I’m the one who handles all the travel plans—comes with the admin territory!

Other: I hear you—organization carries over to real life too. Switching back: do you have a particular workflow for handling incoming requests or prioritizing tasks during the day?

Target: Color-coded spreadsheets, always. And sticky notes everywhere. But seriously, as a general office clerk, I’ve picked up tricks to keep things moving—grouping tasks or batching emails. If there’s ever a morning staff meeting, I’ll be there first, coffee in hand, ready to jot down what needs tackling.

Other: Fantastic. We really value that “can-do” approach. Are there any areas you’d like more training or support in as you get started?

Target: Maybe a quick refresh on your expense filing system. Every office does it a little differently, and the last place I worked had their own quirks—one time I coded an entire month’s worth of receipts on the wrong form! Other than that, as long as I can ask questions and get a walkthrough, I usually pick things up without much trouble.

Other: No problem. We’ll get you set up with a tutorial on that, and I’ll introduce you to our finance lead. They’re super helpful. Any preferences on communicating—email, Teams, phone?

Target: I’m fine with any, but if it’s urgent just call my cell, the nine-four-nine number I mentioned. For routine stuff, email’s probably best, that way I can handle it during my admin blocks. If you send a Teams ping, I’ll usually see it within the hour.

Other: You’re making it easy on us, thanks! I also like to keep my workflow tight—makes everything smoother for the whole office.

Target: That’s how I see it too. At the end of the day, I just want to support the team and keep things running smoothly. Plus, my wife always tells me I’m a “people person” so I try to make the workplace feel welcoming for everyone.

Other: Well, Mr. Reliable, we’re happy to have you. Last question: do you have any plans for taking classes or certificates in the future, or are you happy right where you are in terms of education?

Target: I feel pretty content right now. After getting my high school diploma, I jumped straight into working. Who knows, maybe down the line I’ll look into some workshops, but for now I like being hands-on, learning from experience.

Other: That’s great. Thanks for your openness today—it’s refreshing to hear about your journey and background, and we’re excited to have you on the team.

Target: Thanks for the warm welcome. If you need anything organized, scheduled, or tracked down, you know who to call!

Other: Will do. Let’s catch up again after your first month and see how everything’s going.

Target: Sounds good—looking forward to it! Appreciate your time.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_249 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# GU-50

The GU-50 (Russian: ГУ-50) is a power pentode vacuum tube intended for 50 watt operation as a linear RF amplifier on frequencies up to 120 MHz.  It is, in fact, a Soviet-produced copy of the Telefunken LS-50 power pentode, possibly reverse-engineered from German (Wehrmacht) military radios captured during World War II, or based on documentation, machines and materials captured as a trophy.  It is one of the more unusual types of tube because of its non-standard 8-pin base and a metal "cap" (not connected to any of the tube internal elements) with a plastic "handle" on top of the envelope - which is meant to ease extracting the tube from its socket (especially when the tube is hot). One stock Russian-produced socket includes a rugged die-cast metal cage-like enclosure for the tube with spring-loaded locking lid. (The cap was made for fixation of the tube in the metal can, since tubes were designed for mobile operations). Another stock Russian-produced socket is stamped of light aluminium sheet metal, without a lid on top.

In the past the tube was very popular with Soviet and Eastern European amateur radio operators because it was commonly available (from military and government warehouses) and could produce fairly large amounts of output power using relatively simple designs. Also, it was popular in Soviet-era DIY audio amplifiers for hi-fi and musical instruments. GU-50 tubes were used also in early TV sets as a horizontal sweep output stage, and in medical devices as RF generators. The tube was never used in mass production amplifiers for civil usage because of relatively expensive technology and materials used.

During the Soviet years, the tube was produced by one of the major Soviet transmitting-tube manufacturers in the city of Ulianovsk. It was also made in Poland, in the Unitra factory. At this time it is unclear if current production of the tube exists; however, large quantities of New Old Stock (NOS) GU-50s appear to be available in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and the type is far more readily found than the original LS-50.

GU-50 was not alone. There were other successors of LS-50 designed by Telefunken. Switzerland's BBC produced P50/1 and later modified version P50/2. They had the same base and pinout as the original LS-50. German Democratic Republic made a P50 that had the same bulb as Soviet ГУ-50.  Later RFT made a P50-1 version of their tube. Unlike Soviet TV designers that used stock military GU-50 for their first TV sets, Eastern German manufacturers offered P50-2 especially made for TV horizontal sweep duties. There were also versions with simplified bulbs made for civil usage, but internals were still too expensive to compete with civil tubes like rugged clones of RCA 6L6 and especially designed later sweep tubes like EL500. The Western German version was called FL152 (or, with 6.3-volt heater, EL152); Eastern German version was called SRS552N. Czechoslovak company Tesla also produced copy of LS-60 under designation 6L50. It had cap and different socket, but it was electrically identical.

The tube, despite its European popularity, was not well known in U.S.A. and Canada until audiophiles rediscovered it after the collapse of Eastern political block and Soviet Union.

The Chinese version of this tube is called FU-50 and production still continues, probably by Shuguang, the major Chinese tube builder.

The tube was originally designed for mobile operations, so its filament draws only 0.705 amps of current, while anode power dissipation allowed is up to 40 watts, quite big for such low filament power. It determines the need for high anode voltage, 800 V typically. The screen grid is quite dense, so its voltage when working in pentode mode is limited by 300 volts, otherwise power dissipated by the grid when anode voltage goes below screen grid voltage would damage it. That's why the tube cannot be efficiently used in so-called "Ultra - Linear" regime when anode and screen grid have the same...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_257 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# PV mount

A PV mount is a lens mount developed by Panavision for use with both 16 mm and 35 mm film and digital movie cameras of various sensor sizes. It is one of the mounts offered with Panavision cameras and Panavision-designed lenses. Panavision also modifies ("Panavises") its third party camera and lens equipment in the interest of allowing clients to retain their personal preferences regarding equipment. As they are the only company who can offer this, customers wanting to use Panavision lenses on non-Panavision cameras or vice versa must rent this equipment directly through Panavision.

The mount itself contains four pronged flanges, one of which contains a locating pin in the center. This pin is normally seated at the bottom of the camera lens mount, the usual location where a complementary hole exists.  The mount is locked into place using a friction locking ring which, in conjunction with the four prongs of the flange, creates a very strong lens seating. This has become a crucial factor in recent years, as bigger lenses with zoom capabilities, longer focal lengths, or larger lens elements have raised the bar on requirements for mount stability.

Technical specifications
Flange focal distance: 57.15 mm
Diameter: 49.50 mm
Cameras: 
35 mm all Panavision models and several Arri, RED, Sony and Moviecam models (as available)
16 mm Panavision "Elaine" and several Arri and Aaton models (as available)

Lens mounts
Panavision
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-96 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, happy to help. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling pretty run down lately. I’m a male in my late 40s, and just haven’t felt myself, especially with work and everything going on.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that. Can you tell me a bit more about your job and daily routine? Sometimes that can have a big impact on energy levels.

Patient: Sure. I work in sales—specifically, I’m a door-to-door sales worker. That means I’m out and about quite a bit, talking to people in different neighborhoods and sometimes setting up at newsstands as well.

Doctor: That sounds like a physically demanding job. How long have you been working in that field?

Patient: I’ve been doing door-to-door sales and related work for about 12 years now. It’s got its ups and downs, especially here in Montana where the weather can be pretty extreme.

Doctor: Absolutely, Montana weather can go from one extreme to another. Do you live in town or more rural areas?

Patient: I live right here in Montana. My place is just outside Billings. Lots of wide-open spaces.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. And you mentioned you’ve been feeling run down. Is that mainly physical fatigue, or have you noticed other symptoms, like changes in sleep or mood?

Patient: A bit of both, actually. My sleep isn’t great. I’m separated now, and I think that’s messed with my routine a bit. Sometimes I just toss and turn at night.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear about the separation. Major life changes like that can definitely disrupt sleep and mood. When did you and your partner separate, if you don’t mind me asking?

Patient: It’s been about eight months now. Still getting used to sleeping alone and dealing with all the paperwork.

Doctor: That’s understandable, and coping with those changes on top of a demanding sales job must be tough. Do you have any family or friends nearby for support?

Patient: Some friends in the area, and I try to catch up when I can. But between work—knocking on doors, selling subscriptions, and working as a street vendor sometimes—and trying to get everything in my personal life sorted, it’s just hard to make time.

Doctor: That makes sense. Do you find the physical aspect of your work more tiring now than before? Any shortness of breath or unusual pain?

Patient: Yeah, especially after a long day of walking and carrying samples around. No chest pain or breathing issues, but I just get worn out faster now.

Doctor: I appreciate this context. Have you had any significant health concerns or medical history we should be aware of? Any recent changes in medication?

Patient: No major changes. I did attend college for a while—got more than a year’s worth of credits under my belt, but I never finished my degree. Sometimes I wonder if that stress adds to things, too.

Doctor: I understand. Education can be a stressor—especially if you feel like it’s something unfinished. Just to confirm, so I have your records accurate: your highest educational attainment is at least one year of college credit, but no degree?

Patient: Yes, exactly—one or more years of college credit, no degree.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying that. And just for our files, can you verify your Social Security Number for me?

Patient: Sure, it’s 460-18-6913.

Doctor: Thank you. As for general health, do you smoke, drink, or have any dietary factors I should know about?

Patient: I don’t smoke, but I do have a few drinks on the weekends, especially after a long week canvassing neighborhoods. Food-wise, probably too much fast food from being on the road in Montana a lot.

Doctor: Understandable. Staying healthy on the go is a challenge. Are you currently taking any medications or supplements?

Patient: Just a daily multivitamin. No prescriptions at the moment.

Doctor: Thank you. Regarding your fatigue, it could be a mix of physical strain from your work in door-to-door sales and the stress of being separated. How’s your mental health generally? Any anxiety or low mood besides trouble sleeping?

Patient: Honestly, it’s hit or miss. Being male, sometimes I don’t talk about it enough, but after the separation, my mood hasn’t been the greatest. I try to stay positive.

Doctor: It’s good that you’re aware and willing to talk about it. Mental health is important, no matter your sex or background. If it helps, we can talk about counseling or simple steps to help with stress and sleep.

Patient: That sounds good. I’d be open to options, especially if it’ll help me feel more like myself. Montana winters can wear you down, too.

Doctor: Absolutely, the colder months can make things tougher, especially in rural Montana. Let’s run a few basic tests today to check for any underlying issues—like a blood panel—and I’ll give you some resources for local support and healthier routines on the road. Does that sound alright?

Patient: Yes, that sounds great. Thank you for understanding where I’m coming from. When you spend your day doing door-to-door sales and selling papers outside, you see people, but it can still feel lonely, especially after being separated.

Doctor: I hear you. Remember, you’re not alone and we’re here to support you. I appreciate your openness about your occupation, education, and the challenges you’re facing now.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. It helps to talk about it, and I appreciate you listening. I’ll wait for those tests and look forward to whatever help you can offer.

Doctor: My pleasure. We’ll get those tests started, and I’ll follow up with strategies for managing fatigue and mental health. If you have any questions or concerns before then, just give us a call.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-8 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good morning! Thanks for joining our call today. Before we dive in, could you confirm your contact information and current employment details for our records?

Target: Absolutely. My full address is 1665 Lander Ave, Turlock, CA 95380. I am currently employed as a stock clerk and order filler, which is an office and administrative support position. 

Other: Perfect, thank you for confirming. And, just for our HR files, may I get your date of birth as well?

Target: Sure thing. My date of birth is 11 October 2002.

Other: Thanks, that’s all very helpful. Now, regarding your current role as a stock clerk and order filler—can you describe your primary responsibilities?

Target: Of course. My main tasks involve tracking incoming shipments, organizing inventories, filling orders, and general office support. I also help maintain records to make sure our paperwork is accurate. Besides that, I assist coworkers with other administrative tasks when needed.

Other: Sounds like you have to stay organized and flexible in your role. Are you currently working full time or part time?

Target: I am working full time right now. I’m a civilian employed and at work, so I spend most weekdays at our office facility on Lander Ave.

Other: Excellent. Out of curiosity, are you single or married? We have certain benefits that vary based on marital status, and we want to make sure you’re aware of everything available to you.

Target: I have never been married.

Other: Got it. Thank you for clarifying that for us. So, is 1665 Lander Ave your current residential address as well as your work location, or do you work somewhere else nearby?

Target: That’s actually my home address. My office is in a different part of Turlock, but not too far from there.

Other: Understood. For emergency contacts and verification, could you repeat your state of residence?

Target: Yes, I live in California.

Other: Great, thanks. Let’s talk about your workday a little. Since you’re working as a stock clerk and order filler, do you notice any seasonal trends or challenges that come up in your workflow?

Target: Definitely. Around the holidays, things always get more hectic. There’s a huge increase in orders that need to be filled and stocked. It means longer hours sometimes, but our administrative team is good about supporting us through busier stretches.

Other: Makes sense. How long have you been in your current occupation?

Target: I started this position about two years ago, so I’ve been working as a stock clerk and order filler since 2022.

Other: That’s impressive. Given your experience, have you taken on any supervisory tasks or training of new employees?

Target: Yes, a few times. I've been asked to show new staff how to use our tracking software and guide them through daily routines. It’s a part of the job I actually enjoy, and it helps me feel more invested in the team.

Other: That’s fantastic. Since you mentioned you’re never married, do you find your work schedule allows for a good work-life balance?

Target: To be honest, it can be a challenge sometimes, especially during peak months. But since I’m not married and don’t have kids, it gives me more flexibility to work extra hours if needed.

Other: I appreciate your honesty. Now, transitioning a bit—at your location in Turlock, are there any particular logistical challenges with supply chain or receiving inventory?

Target: Occasionally, yes. Since 1665 Lander Ave is relatively close to some of the city’s main routes, we usually don’t have major transportation issues. But sometimes, trucks run late or we get incorrect shipments, so I have to coordinate with vendors and our admin to keep everything running smoothly.

Other: Your experience clearly helps with problem solving. If you could change one thing about your office and administrative support role, what would it be?

Target: Possibly the process for entering inventory data. Right now, it’s pretty manual and time-consuming. Automating some of those processes would help make my day as a stock clerk and order filler more efficient.

Other: That’s a useful suggestion. I’ll make a note of it. We like to recognize our employees’ contributions. Since your date of birth is October 11, 2002, that makes you among the younger staff members, correct?

Target: Yes, I turned 21 last October. Being one of the younger employees in the office puts me in a unique position—I’m able to learn a lot from colleagues who’ve worked in administrative support for decades.

Other: Absolutely. It’s great that you’re taking initiative so early in your career. Since your primary address is 1665 Lander Ave, can you tell me a bit about your commute?

Target: I’m lucky—it’s a short drive, maybe 10 to 15 minutes, since my work is in Turlock as well. Living in California, the roads can get busy, but it hasn’t been a big issue for me.

Other: That’s convenient! Before we wrap up, is there anything else about your role or experience as a civilian employed stock clerk and order filler in California that you’d like to mention for your professional profile?

Target: I’d just add that I value the teamwork in our administrative support department. Being able to contribute at work each day makes a difference for me, and I hope to keep growing in the field. My current position as a stock clerk and order filler has given me good experience managing orders and collaborating internally.

Other: That’s wonderful to hear. We really appreciate you taking the time to provide all these details today. Just to reiterate for our records: you are currently at work, in a civilian employment position as a stock clerk and order filler; your address is 1665 Lander Ave, Turlock, CA 95380; you live in California; your date of birth is 11 October 2002; and you have never been married. Is all that correct?

Target: Yes, that’s all correct.

Other: Great! Thanks again for your time. You'll be receiving a follow-up email shortly.

Target: Thank you. I’ll look out for it. Have a good rest of your day!

Other: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-79 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for squeezing me in before your lunch break. I know you’re super busy.

Doctor: Not a problem at all. It’s always good to see you. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I guess it’s a combination of things. I’ve had these random headaches for a while, and they’re sort of messing with my focus at the factory. Plus, with everything at home and at work, I just feel pretty worn out most days.

Doctor: I'm sorry to hear that. Let's try to sort things out. How long have these headaches been going on, and can you describe them for me? Are they sharp, dull, or does it vary?

Patient: They started maybe two or three months ago. They’re not sharp, more like this dull ache that creeps up, especially after my shift. Sometimes it feels like someone wrapped a rubber band around my head. The days I’m standing at my station for too long, it gets worse, but it doesn’t always go away with painkillers.

Doctor: Do you notice if they come on at a particular time of day, or when doing a certain task?

Patient: Usually in the afternoons, right after lunch, but sometimes later too. We’re always on our feet, putting together small parts at the assembly line. They changed our schedule recently, so now I do more repetitive motions, sometimes with heavier materials. Maybe that’s messing with me as well.

Doctor: Got it. Any changes in your vision, nausea, or sensitivity to light or noise when the headaches happen?

Patient: Sometimes the lights at work bug me, especially the flickering ones. I get a bit queasy if I’m on my feet too long, but that’s probably from skipping breaks. My crew lead always forgets, you know?

Doctor: That’s important to note. How are things going outside of work? You mentioned feeling worn out “with everything at home”—is there more stress recently?

Patient: Yeah. My other half’s job just cut his hours, so we’ve been juggling bills, and I pick up double shifts where I can. Plus, honestly, managing the house, trying to keep food on the table—sometimes it gets to be a lot. There’s not much downtime, especially since I help my niece with her homework in the evenings.

Doctor: It sounds like you carry a lot of responsibility, both at work and at home. Are you able to get any rest or time for yourself? How’s your sleep been?

Patient: I wish. By the time I can sit down, it’s usually past eleven. And then my brain just seems to go a mile a minute, thinking about what needs to be done the next day. On a good night, I’ll get five or six hours, but some nights I’m up watching late-night TV repeats—my husband snores anyway, so even when I do fall asleep, it’s kind of light.

Doctor: I see. Sleep deprivation can definitely contribute to headaches and feeling exhausted. On the weekends, do you get a chance to rest more, or is it just as busy?

Patient: It’s a bit better. We used to go out on Saturday nights, but now we mostly stay home. Sometimes I’ll have a cookout with family for special days—like, last summer, my anniversary lined up really close with the fireworks in town. It was fun, even if it was just the two of us and a couple friends.

Doctor: That sounds lovely. How many years have you and your partner been married?

Patient: Just over a year and a half—feels longer some days and way shorter on others! We actually tied the knot not too long ago, small courthouse thing, just before all the big changes happened at work.

Doctor: Congratulations to you both. Let’s talk a little about your work. You said you’re on your feet assembling parts—is that mostly manual work, or do you operate machinery too?

Patient: Mostly manual. Some folks get assigned the fancy machines, but I’m one of the folks who snaps together the little plastic and metal bits. Sometimes I have to use a small handheld press, but nothing huge. My station has containers of random parts, and I follow the diagrams, popping them together over and over. If I get that wrong, it gets sent back down the line—nobody is happy about that.

Doctor: That sounds repetitive, which can be hard on the body. Any pain in your wrists or hands? Numbness or tingling?

Patient: Oh, for sure. Especially in my right hand. It’s like after eight hours, my fingers are stiff, and sometimes my wrist feels like it has pins and needles. They told us to stretch, but no one really stops to do it with the line moving so fast. Plus, I help clean up at the end of the night—someone’s gotta pick up all the stray screws and pieces.

Doctor: I’ll share some stretches and tips that might help with the hands and wrists before you finish today. Do you have time to eat during your shift, or do you skip meals?

Patient: It depends. I grab what I can from the vending machine—usually chips or a candy bar. Sometimes I pack a sandwich but forget it, or someone else eats it by accident. The break room can get crowded, and if you’re at the back of the line, you barely have ten minutes.

Doctor: Nutrition could be playing a part in how you’re feeling. We can go over some quick snack ideas that are better for your energy and focus, even on a tight schedule.

Patient: That would be great. Sometimes I think if I’d finished school, maybe I’d have a desk job instead of being on the line, but I left high school before graduation to start working. In my family, that’s kind of the usual. Everyone starts earning as soon as they can, and you just keep at it.

Doctor: It sounds like you’ve worked very hard for a long time, and your experience is valuable. If you’re ever interested in night classes or other opportunities, I can recommend community programs that don’t require a full diploma.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor, maybe someday. For now, work’s work, and there’s bills to pay. Sometimes I wish I'd pushed through that last year, but back then, it felt like I needed to help out at home more.

Doctor: Are you feeling any pressure from managers at the job, or do you feel supported?

Patient: It depends on who’s covering the shift. One supervisor is always hovering, counting how many units we finish every hour. That stress piles up, especially if you’re tired. But some coworkers are nice, and we look out for each other. It helps keep me going. My hands would fall off if I didn't have people to joke around with.

Doctor: Social support is important. Do you ever talk with any of your coworkers about what you're feeling—like about the stress, or even the headaches?

Patient: Sometimes. A couple of us band together and complain in the parking lot before our rides show up. One of the older ladies says she’s had headaches since forever, but she says it’s just “part of the job” and to drink more coffee. Not sure that helps! My spouse has been good about reminding me to rest, but sometimes I don’t listen.

Doctor: How about your periods—have there been any changes? Sometimes headaches can be connected to hormonal shifts.

Patient: They’re regular, as always. I don’t have any unusual pain, just the normal cramps. My aunt used to joke that in our family, we all get a visit from “Aunt Flo” the week after those big summer parades, and for me, it’s always been true.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Has anyone in your family had migraines or similar issues?

Patient: My mom used to say she’d get them around her birthday—which is funny, because mine is just a few days after hers. She always celebrated at the big Fourth of July cookouts, and so did I growing up. My friends would tease that the whole town set off fireworks for me, since I was usually the youngest at the party by a few months.

Doctor: So, your birthday must fall right around the holiday?

Patient: Yep, always had fireworks for my birthday. Makes it easy to remember, even if you forget the cake!

Doctor: That's a fun tradition! You mentioned your mom’s headaches—did she ever get treatment for those?

Patient: No, she always just took over-the-counter stuff and said it’d pass. She ran the house with four kids, so I guess she just powered through. I’m trying not to be like that—figured it was time to get checked out properly before I ignore it too long.

Doctor: That's a good decision. Preventive care is important, and we don't want things to get worse. Out of curiosity, how old are you now?

Patient: I turned twenty last summer. Still feels weird not being a teen anymore, but here we are! My friends joked I finally joined the “adult club” last year, but the only thing that changed was I got more bills.

Doctor: You’re still young, and you’ve got a lot on your plate. Since you said you do mostly manual work and are on your feet all day, do you notice any swelling in your legs or feet?

Patient: Sometimes. After a double, my ankles get puffy, but it goes away when I prop them up at night. I heard one of my coworkers talk about compression socks—do those really help?

Doctor: They can be very helpful when standing or walking for long hours. I can suggest a few options for you to try. Also, making a point to move your feet up and down while you’re standing can help pump the blood back up toward your heart.

Patient: I’ll try that. I just want to make sure I’m healthy enough to keep working. My husband worries I’m burning myself out, but I tell him that’s what marriage is sometimes—looking out for each other, picking up the slack. He helps when he can, but I’m usually the one with the steadier paycheck.

Doctor: Having a partner who cares is very important, especially when things are stressful. Are you both able to talk about your health concerns openly with each other?

Patient: Oh, for sure. We’re pretty open about that stuff. He jokingly calls himself my “unofficial nurse” and always checks if I’ve eaten or if I remembered my asthma inhaler.

Doctor: That’s excellent support. Speaking of which—any changes with your breathing, or have your asthma symptoms changed?

Patient: Not really. The only time it acts up is if someone decides to break out the cleaning sprays at work, or if a machine gets too dusty. I haven’t needed to use my rescue inhaler more than once in the last couple of weeks.

Doctor: Good to hear you’re managing it well. With the headaches, your work environment, and everything else, I think we should do some basic bloodwork, maybe check your iron and general health. How does that sound?

Patient: That’s fine. Needles don’t scare me—my niece hates them, but I’m the family “tough girl.” Just as long as I don’t have to miss work for too long.

Doctor: The nurse can draw blood today and you’ll be in and out quickly. I’ll also refer you to an occupational health specialist who may have some tips specific to your work environment. Let’s keep following up on how you’re feeling, especially with those headaches.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. I appreciate you listening. It means a lot—not everyone takes the time, especially when you’re “just another worker” from the factory floor.

Doctor: You’re never just another worker here. Your health and well-being matter. Reach out anytime, especially if you notice new symptoms between now and your next appointment.

Patient: Will do. Maybe I’ll finally get more sleep if I can convince my husband to get that anti-snore mouthguard you mentioned last time!

Doctor: It's worth a try! Take care, and let’s see you back soon for those results.

Patient: Thank you. Have a good day, Doctor.

Doctor: You too. Take care.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_195 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Current limiting

Current limiting is the practice of imposing a limit on the current that may be delivered to a load to protect the circuit generating or transmitting the current from harmful effects due to a short-circuit or overload. The term "current limiting" is also used to define a type of overcurrent protective device. According to the 2020 NEC/NFPA 70, a current-limiting overcurrent protective device is defined as, "A device that, when interrupting currents in its current-limiting range, reduces the current flowing in the faulted circuit to a magnitude substantially less than that obtainable in the same circuit if the device were replaced with a solid conductor having compatible impedance."

Inrush current limiting

An inrush current limiter is a device or devices combination used to limit inrush current. Passive resistive components such as resistors (with power dissipation drawback), or negative temperature coefficient (NTC) thermistors are simple options while the positive one (PTC) is used to limit max current afterward as the circuit has been operating (with cool-down time drawback on both). More complex solutions using active components can be used when more straightforward options are unsuitable.

In electronic power circuits

Some electronic circuits employ active current limiting since a fuse may not protect solid-state devices.

One style of current limiting circuit is shown in the image. The schematic represents a simple protection mechanism used in regulated DC supplies and class-AB power amplifiers.

Q1 is the pass or output transistor. Rsens is the load current sensing device. Q2 is the protection transistor which turns on as soon as the voltage across Rsens becomes about 0.65 V. This voltage is determined by the value of Rsens and the load current through it (Iload). When Q2 turns on, it removes the base current from Q1, thereby reducing the collector current of Q1, which is nearly the load current. Thus, Rsens fixes the maximum current to a value given by 0.65/Rsens.  For example, if Rsens = 0.33 Ω, the current is limited to about 2 A even if Rload becomes a short (and Vo becomes zero).

Further, this power dissipation will remain as long as the overload exists, which means that the devices must be capable of withstanding it for a substantial period. This power dissipation will be substantially less than if no current limiting circuit had been provided. In this technique, beyond the current limit, the output voltage will decrease to a value depending on the current limit and load resistance.

To reduce the heat that must be dissipated by the pass devices under a short-circuit, foldback current limiting is used, which reduces current in the short-circuit case. Under a short circuit, where the output voltage has reduced to zero, the current is typically limited to a small fraction of the maximum current.

The prime purpose of foldback current limiting in linear power supplies is to keep the output transistor within its safe power dissipation limit. A linear regulator dissipates the difference between input and output voltages as heat. Under overload conditions, the output voltage falls, so the difference becomes larger, thus increasing dissipation. Foldback helps to keep the output transistor within its safe operating area under fault and overload conditions. Foldback also significantly reduces the power dissipation in the load in fault conditions, which can reduce the risks of fire and heat damage.

Many power supplies employ constant current limiting protection; foldback goes one step further by linearly reducing the output current limit as output voltage decreases. However, it adds complexity to the power supply. It can trigger "lockout" conditions with non-ohmic devices that draw a constant current independent of the supply voltage (such as op-amps). A foldback current limiter may also employ a transient delay to avoid lockout and limit localized heating at the short circuit.

A switched-mode power supply operating...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_196 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Event loop

In computer science, the event loop is a programming construct or design pattern that waits for and dispatches events or messages in a program. The event loop works by making a request to some internal or external "event provider" (that generally blocks the request until an event has arrived), then calls the relevant event handler ("dispatches the event"). The event loop is also sometimes referred to as the message dispatcher, message loop, message pump, or run loop.

The event-loop may be used in conjunction with a reactor, if the event provider follows the file interface, which can be selected or 'polled' (the Unix system call, not actual polling). The event loop almost always operates asynchronously with the message originator.

When the event loop forms the central control flow construct of a program, as it often does, it may be termed the main loop or main event loop. This title is appropriate, because such an event loop is at the highest level of control within the program.

Message passing
Message pumps are said to 'pump' messages from the program's message queue (assigned and usually owned by the underlying operating system) into the program for processing. In the strictest sense, an event loop is one of the methods for implementing inter-process communication. In fact, message processing exists in many systems, including a kernel-level component of the Mach operating system. The event loop is a specific implementation technique of systems that use message passing.

Alternative designs
This approach is in contrast to a number of other alternatives:
Traditionally, a program simply ran once, then terminated. This type of program was very common in the early days of computing, and lacked any form of user interactivity. This is still used frequently, particularly in the form of command-line-driven programs. Any parameters are set up in advance and passed in one go when the program starts.
Menu-driven designs. These still may feature a main loop, but are not usually thought of as event driven in the usual sense. Instead, the user is presented with an ever-narrowing set of options until the task they wish to carry out is the only option available. Limited interactivity through the menus is available.

Usage
Due to the predominance of graphical user interfaces, most modern applications feature a main loop. The get_next_message() routine is typically provided by the operating system, and blocks until a message is available. Thus, the loop is only entered when there is something to process.

 function main
     initialize()
     while message != quit
         message := get_next_message()
         process_message(message)
     end while
 end function

File interface
Under Unix, the "everything is a file" paradigm naturally leads to a file-based event loop. Reading from and writing to files, inter-process communication, network communication, and device control are all achieved using file I/O, with the target identified by a file descriptor. The select and poll system calls allow a set of file descriptors to be monitored for a change of state, e.g. when data becomes available to be read.

For example, consider a program that reads from a continuously updated file and displays its contents in the X Window System, which communicates with clients over a socket (either Unix domain or Berkeley):
def main():
    file_fd = open("logfile.log")
    x_fd = open_display()
    construct_interface()
    while True:
        rlist, _, _ = select.select([file_fd, x_fd], [], []):
        if file_fd in rlist:
            data = file_fd.read()
            append_to_display(data)
            send_repaint_message()
        if x_fd in rlist:
            process_x_messages()

Handling signals
One of the few things in Unix that does not conform to the file interface are asynchronous events (signals). Signals are received in signal handlers, small, limited pieces of code that run while the rest of the task is suspended; if a signal is received and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-94 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi Emily! Thanks for making the time to hop on this call—I know it was a bit last minute.

Other: No worries, I was just wrapping up some emails. Glad we could connect. So how’s your morning going?

Target: Not too bad, although I can’t say I’m a fan of how cold it still gets around here, even in late April. Had to scrape frost off my windshield today!

Other: Oh wow, really? We’re already getting summer weather out here. Remind me again—where are you based?

Target: I’m just outside Milwaukee, so the freeze likes to overstay its welcome, if you know what I mean. It’s nice when the snow finally disappears, though—I get to bike along the Lakefront Trail again.

Other: That sounds beautiful. I’ve never actually been to Milwaukee, but I’ve heard the cheese and the breweries are legendary.

Target: Oh, absolutely. There’s always something going on downtown, too—Summerfest, Brewer games, you name it. Even if you’re not into beer, there’s always a good bratwurst or some squeaky cheese curds around.

Other: I’m sold. I might have to visit one day! Anyway, I’d love to hear a bit more about your current role and what you’re working on these days, just for context before we dive in.

Target: Sure, so these days I spend most of my time working with the analytics team at the company. Basically, I handle all the reports for our customer feedback initiatives. We’re doing some really cool stuff integrating survey data with product development.

Other: Sounds like there’s a lot of data wrangling there. Are you mainly remote or do you go into the office?

Target: It’s a mix. I usually work from home on Mondays and Fridays, but the rest of the week I'm in the office. There’s something about being in the workspace that helps me focus, y’know? Maybe it’s just easier without all the distractions from home—like my spouse asking for “just one more favor” during the lunch hour.

Other: Haha, I can relate. It always seems like the people closest to you assume you’re always available when you’re home. Speaking of your spouse, are you two doing anything fun this weekend?

Target: Actually, we’re celebrating our anniversary a little late. We both had work stuff on our actual date, so we made a reservation for this Saturday instead. We’ll probably go to that Italian place near the lake, the one with the amazing homemade pasta. Not as exciting as going on a big trip, but after a few years of marriage, you learn to cherish the small, cozy moments.

Other: Happy belated anniversary! Homemade pasta sounds like the perfect way to celebrate. How long have you been together now, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Let’s see... We tied the knot just before the pandemic hit, so it’s been a little over five years now. Feels like a lifetime and no time at all, if that makes sense.

Other: That’s wonderful. I know so many people who had their weddings affected by those lockdowns. Did you have to change your plans?

Target: Oh, definitely. We ended up swapping the big reception for a tiny courthouse ceremony and a Zoom call with family. Not what we pictured, but it made us focus on what mattered. Plus, we said we’d do a big party on our ten-year, so there's something to look forward to!

Other: That’s the spirit. Shifting back to work stuff, could you walk me through a typical day for you? Like, what does your workflow look like when you’re handling data and pulling reports?

Target: Sure thing. I start the mornings by checking urgent ticket requests that come through from the product team—they usually want updated feedback numbers. Then, I’ll spend a couple of hours cleaning the new data that’s come in from our customer surveys. Once that’s done, I use a mix of Python and Tableau to create dashboards. Then, I have recurring check-ins with my manager and the rest of the team. Sometimes, if a project is really pressing or there are meetings that would benefit from an extra pair of hands, I’ll end up helping some colleagues from another department—especially finance. It keeps things interesting.

Other: That’s quite a varied workload! Were you always interested in data and analytics, or did you come to it later on?

Target: Actually, back in college, I was one of those people who couldn’t decide on a single field, so I double-majored in psychology and computer science. I didn’t realize at the time how much overlap there’d be—understanding people and understanding systems. The degree definitely helped me land interviews, but I think it’s the combination of both perspectives that let me bring something useful to the team.

Other: That’s a great mix. You know, companies are always on the lookout for folks with that kind of background. Did you study nearby or go out of state for school?

Target: I stayed pretty close—ended up just across the state at the university in Madison. It was the best of both worlds: a big campus, but not far enough to get too homesick or miss out on Sunday dinners back home.

Other: Ah, Madison’s a fantastic city! I visited once for a conference and loved the vibe. The campus is stunning, especially around the lakes.

Target: For sure. I still try to get back for Homecoming if I can, and I have a few friends who stayed in town, so it’s always a good excuse to visit. Plus, I confess, I still have my old student ID stashed somewhere just for nostalgia’s sake.

Other: I’m now picturing you in full Badger gear, tailgating before a football game!

Target: Guilty as charged, though these days I’m more likely to be corralling a niece or nephew than leading any cheers.

Other: Haha, that’s life, right? Actually, this is reminding me—how long have you been in your current role at the company?

Target: Let me think… I started with the company just after finishing college, so it’s been about three years now. Started as a junior analyst and worked my way up to my current position. I’m grateful they took a chance on me right out of school.

Other: That’s impressive! It’s not always easy to get a foot in the door, especially in analytics roles these days. You mentioned working cross-functionally—do you see yourself staying on this path, or do you have other career aspirations?

Target: Good question. I think the dream would eventually be to lead my own analytics team. Maybe even branch out into consulting. But for now, I’m enjoying the learning curve and the chance to mentor some of our interns. It’s rewarding to see someone just starting out find their footing—kind of reminds me of what it was like finishing up finals and nervously looking for my first job.

Other: Finals—that brings back memories. What did you do to survive exam stress back then?

Target: Honestly, the big thing was coffee, lots of late-night study groups—and after the last exam, we’d all go for pizza at this spot off State Street. It was our little ritual every November.

Other: November, huh? That’s a tough time of year already, with the weather and all. Did it ever overlap with your birthday?

Target: Oh yeah, every year without fail my friends would try to sneak candles into some store-bought dessert during our study sessions. I can’t think of a single birthday in college that wasn’t a mix of lecture notes and confetti from someone’s locker.

Other: That actually sounds kind of wonderful—stressful, but memorable. Speaking of birthdays, do you have any big plans for your next one?

Target: Well, this year is kind of a milestone for me. I turn 24 in the fall, which still seems surreal. My birthday’s always right around election day, so celebrations sometimes get shuffled around voting. If I’m going out, I usually try to cast my ballot early so there’s no conflict.

Other: Wait, so your birthday sometimes falls on voting day in November?

Target: Exactly. There’s been more than one year where I’ve had my “Happy Birthday” sung in a line at the polls. Spirited Wisconsin politics, birthday treats, and chilly weather, all in one day.

Other: That’s pretty unique! Do you remember what day your birthday fell on during the last major presidential election?

Target: Yeah, I do, actually! I always joke that confetti at the polls was for me, not the winner. That was in 2024—I was turning 22, and my birthday landed smack on a Tuesday, just like the elections.

Other: That’s a fun coincidence! So fall and November have a special meaning for you. Any traditions with your spouse for birthday celebrations?

Target: We usually keep it low-key—I get to pick what’s for dinner, and sometimes we spend the weekend up north. Last year, we rented a little cabin near Door County and made s’mores by the firepit. Honestly, there’s nothing quite like autumn in the north woods: colorful leaves, crisp air, and watching a Packer game somewhere cozy.

Other: Football, s’mores, and fall colors—that’s hard to beat. Do you and your partner have similar hobbies, or is it more a ‘opposites attract’ situation?

Target: We have overlap, for sure: hiking, board games with friends, binge-watching sci-fi shows. I’m more of a reader, and my other half is into roller derby—so there’s always something new to try or cheer for. We joke that our wedding vows should have included “may your team always beat mine when I care least!”

Other: Sounds fantastic. Going back to your job for a moment—do you find balancing personal and professional commitments tricky? Especially with all the team and cross-functional projects you’re a part of.

Target: Definitely, it can be a bit of a juggling act. There are weeks where I’m rushing from meetings to dinner plans, or answering Slack messages while prepping for a family gathering. My partner’s job is customer-facing too, so some weeks are busier than others for both of us. We try to carve out time for each other—whether that’s a walk at sunset or morning coffee at our favorite bakery near Brady Street.

Other: That’s a good strategy. Managing work boundaries, family, and staying connected isn’t always easy. How do you decompress after a tough week?

Target: If it’s been a rough week, we’ll order takeout and I’ll disappear into a book for a bit. Sometimes we’ll grab tickets for a Bucks game or go skating downtown in winter—Milwaukee’s Riverwalk is beautiful after dark. Or just crash a friend’s backyard cookout if it's summer.

Other: You really make me want to move to Wisconsin! And you sound like you’ve settled in nicely there. Do you see yourself staying long-term, or are you considering greener pastures elsewhere?

Target: For now, I don’t see any reason to leave. I like the seasons—even the long winters—and it’s close to family. Plus, I’ve built up a great circle of friends and colleagues here. That being said, who knows? If the right opportunity comes up, maybe I’ll get an itch for somewhere with less snow… but I’ll probably miss the Friday fish fries.

Other: It’s good to have roots and routines. You mentioned helping interns earlier—do you have any advice for recent grads trying to break into your field?

Target: Absolutely. I always tell them not to stress if they don’t have their whole future mapped out right after graduation. I didn’t know I’d fall in love with data. Don’t be afraid to try different roles—even the ones that seem tangential, like customer support or operations. Those experiences provide the context you need for more technical work. And lean on your network—professors and classmates can open doors you didn’t expect.

Other: That’s practical advice. One last question, just so I can include it in the project notes: What’s one thing you wish you had known when you were starting your journey, from school to employment and beyond?

Target: I think I wish I’d known it was okay to let go of a “perfect plan” and embrace the unplanned. If you’d told college-me that I’d find my professional groove, get married during a pandemic, and get to celebrate a birthday at the ballot box—all before turning twenty-four—I wouldn’t have believed you. But sometimes, the unexpected turns out better than what you pictured.

Other: That’s really inspiring. Thank you so much for this conversation. I’ll make sure to include your thoughts in the project summary. And happy early birthday for the next “election season”!

Target: Thank you, Emily! This was great—let me know if you ever want any Milwaukee travel tips, or just to swap favorite s’mores recipes!

Other: Will do. Have a great rest of your day.

Target: You too—take care!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_13 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Tank destroyer

A tank destroyer, tank hunter or tank killer is a type of armoured fighting vehicle, predominantly intended for anti-tank duties. They are typically armed with a direct fire artillery gun, also known as a self-propelled anti-tank gun, or missile launcher, also called an anti-tank missile carrier. The vehicles are designed specifically to engage and destroy enemy tanks, often with limited operational capacities.

While tanks are designed for front-line combat, combining operational mobility and tactical offensive and defensive capabilities and performing all primary tasks of the armoured troops, the tank destroyer is specifically designed to take on enemy tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles. Many are based on a tracked tank chassis, while others are wheeled.

Since World War II, gun-armed powerful tank destroyers have fallen out of favor as armies have favored multirole main battle tanks. However, lightly armoured anti-tank guided missile (ATGM) carriers are commonly used for supplementary long-range anti-tank work. The resurgence of expeditionary warfare in the first two decades of the 21st century has seen the emergence of gun-armed wheeled vehicles, sometimes called "protected gun systems", which may bear a superficial resemblance to tank destroyers, but are employed as direct fire support units typically providing support in low-intensity operations, as was done in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

World War II 
Dedicated anti-tank vehicles made their first major appearance in the Second World War as combatants developed effective armoured vehicles and tactics. Some were little more than stopgap solutions, mounting an anti-tank gun on a tracked vehicle to give mobility, while others were more sophisticated designs. An example of the development of tank destroyer technology throughout the war are the Marder III and Jagdpanzer 38 vehicle, that were very different in spite of being based on the same chassis: Marder was straightforwardly an anti-tank gun on tracks whereas the Jagdpanzer 38 traded some firepower (its 7.5 cm Pak 39, designed to operate within the confines of a fully armoured fighting compartment, fires the same projectiles from a reduced propellant charge compared to Marder's 7.5 cm Pak 40) for better armour protection and ease of concealment on the battlefield.

Except for most American designs, all tank destroyers were turretless vehicles with fixed or casemate superstructures. When a tank destroyer was used against enemy tanks from a defensive position such as by ambush, the lack of a rotating turret was not particularly critical, while the lower silhouette was highly desirable. The turretless design allowed accommodation of a more powerful gun, typically a dedicated anti-tank gun (in lieu of a regular tank's general-purpose main gun that fired both anti-tank and high explosive ammunition) that had a longer barrel than could be mounted in a turreted tank on the same chassis. The lack of a turret increased the vehicle's internal volume, allowing for increased ammunition stowage and crew comfort. Eliminating the turret let the vehicle carry thicker armour, and also let this armour be concentrated in the hull. Sometimes there was no armoured roof (only a weather cover) to keep the overall weight down to the limit that the chassis could bear. The absence of a turret meant that tank destroyers could be manufactured significantly cheaper, faster, and more easily than the tanks on which they were based, and they found particular favor when production resources were lacking.

Germany 

The first German tank destroyers were the Panzerjäger ("Tank Hunters"), which mounted an existing anti-tank gun on a convenient chassis for mobility, usually with just a three-sided gun shield for crew protection. For instance, 202 obsolete Panzer I light tanks were modified by removing the turret and were rebuilt as the Panzerjäger I self-propelled 4.7 cm PaK(t). Similarly, Panzer II tanks were used on the eastern front. Captured...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_121 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Party pills

Party pills, also known as "herbal highs", "pep pills" "dance pills" and "natural power", is a colloquialism for a type of recreational drug whose main ingredient was originally benzylpiperazine (BZP), but has expanded to a wide range of compounds with a variety of effects. BZP is banned in a few countries, including the USA, Republic of Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, but is available on a more or less restricted basis in many jurisdictions. A range of other piperazine derivatives have also been sold as ingredients in party pills, and many of these branded "proprietary blends" have subsequently been sold in countries around the world. 

Piperazine derivatives sold in this way include BZP, TFMPP, MeOPP, pFPP and several others.  mCPP has rarely been sold as a party pill ingredient due to its tendency to cause migraine headaches.  These piperazines are usually mixed with other ingredients such as caffeine, 5-HTP, Oxedrine (which has close effects to ephedrine), Camelia sinensis and a range of vitamins, minerals, amino acids and binders to make party pills.

In countries such as New Zealand where BZP and related piperazines have been made illegal, there is now increasing commercial interest in piperazine-free "party pills" which are purported to produce similar effects with ingredients that will circumvent the ban. Common active ingredients (among many others) include caffeine, theobromine, other stimulant alkaloids, octopamine, blue lotus extract (Nymphaea caerulea), natural sources of the LSD precursor and weak psychedelic agent lysergic acid amide (illegal in many countries), passionflower (sedative which contains monoamine oxidase inhibitors), Citrus aurantium (contains small amounts of the stimulant synephrine), glaucine (plant derived compound usually used as cough medicine), and geranamine (alkylamine compound found in geranium oil).

News and legality
Party pills and their legal status are often in the news. Matt Bowden, one of the original distributors of such pills was interviewed when issues involving party pills arose in the media. A clinical trial by ClubStargate for a pill named Ease was suspended because it contained methylone, which was claimed by the Ministry of Health to fall under New Zealand controlled drug analogue laws (although this was never proven in court).

New Zealand has classified BZP-based party pills as a "Restricted Substance" by the Misuse of Drugs Act and restricted to those over 18 years. For more on the legal issues posed by party pills, see benzylpiperazine.

In late June 2007, BZP was classed as a Class C drug in New Zealand and its availability was banned by a law passed on 13 March 2008, with a six-month amnesty period. It was not long before BZP-free alternatives appeared. Despite this, the ingredients used in the new products lacked the potency of the BZP based pills. This subsequently led to a decline in the popularity of party pills.

See also
Benzylpiperazine
Methylhexanamine
TFMPP
MeOPP
pFPP
Ecstasy (drug)
Drug abuse
Recreational drug use
Designer drug
Spice (drug)
Club drug

References

Drug culture
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-66 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor.
Doctor: Good morning! How are you feeling today? What brings you in?
Patient: I’m here for a general check-up, but I also wanted to discuss some issues I’ve been having with fatigue lately. By the way, my name is Myrtle Spinelli. My date of birth is 23 October 1985.
Doctor: Thank you for confirming that, Myrtle. Let me just double-check your information here. I see you’re a male and, just to confirm, you’re currently living in Virginia, correct?
Patient: Yes, that’s right. I live in Virginia.
Doctor: Great, thank you for clarifying those details. You mentioned you’ve been feeling fatigued. Can you tell me how long this has been going on and if you’ve noticed any patterns?
Patient: It’s been about two months. I feel tired most days, especially by the afternoon. It’s starting to affect my work. I am a computer programmer, so I spend most of my day staring at screens, writing and debugging code. I am currently employed and at work full-time.
Doctor: That’s a lot of time in front of the computer. Are you able to take breaks during your workday?
Patient: Not as much as I should, honestly. It feels like once I dive into problem-solving, I lose track of time. The deadlines can be stressful, too.
Doctor: I understand. Working as a computer programmer in a demanding job can definitely contribute to both mental and physical fatigue. Are you also experiencing any issues with your sleep?
Patient: My sleep isn’t great, to be honest. I tend to go to bed past midnight, and sometimes I wake up in the night thinking about unfinished code or issues from work. So, I don’t always feel refreshed in the morning.
Doctor: On average, how many hours would you say you get?
Patient: Maybe five to six, sometimes a bit more on weekends, but not consistently.
Doctor: As a civilian employed person working full-time, especially in such a technical field, lack of quality sleep and high stress can really take a toll. Have you noticed any other symptoms, like headaches, changes in appetite, vision issues, or difficulty focusing?
Patient: Headaches crop up a few times a week, usually tension-type. I haven’t noticed problems with my vision, but I do get sore eyes. Appetite is about the same, but I probably drink more coffee than I should.
Doctor: That’s not uncommon for people in computer and mathematical occupations. Excess screen time, irregular schedules, and a reliance on caffeine – it’s kind of the norm for many programmers! Do you manage to get any physical activity?
Patient: Lately, not much. I haven’t made time for the gym, and by the end of the workday I just want to relax or run errands. I know I should be more active.
Doctor: Completely understandable. Let’s talk about possible solutions. First, I’d recommend working on your sleep hygiene – going to bed at a regular time, winding down without screens for at least 30 minutes before sleep, and considering relaxation techniques. For work, try to schedule short breaks each hour to step away from the computer, stretch, and rest your eyes.
Patient: That makes sense. I think I need to set reminders for breaks, otherwise I just forget.
Doctor: It might sound simple, but scheduled breaks can have a big impact, especially for people in careers like yours. Also, is there any family history of thyroid conditions, diabetes, or other chronic illnesses that I should be aware of?
Patient: Not really. My parents are relatively healthy. My mother had high blood pressure, but nothing major runs in the family.
Doctor: Good to know. Based on your symptoms and the fact you’re a male in your 30s working full-time in a computer programming role, I want to do a few basic blood tests—mainly to check your thyroid, vitamin D, blood sugar, and general health markers. When was your last physical exam or lab work?
Patient: It’s been over a year, probably close to a year and a half. I haven’t seen a doctor since moving to Virginia.
Doctor: Glad you came in then. I’ll order the routine labs. We can also screen for any deficiencies that might contribute to your fatigue. Any new medications or supplements?
Patient: No, just a daily multivitamin, and I take ibuprofen occasionally for headaches.
Doctor: Any allergies?
Patient: None that I know of.
Doctor: And to confirm, Myrtle, you’re employed as a computer programmer, currently working and living in Virginia, male, and born on 23 October 1985, correct?
Patient: Yes, all of that is correct.
Doctor: Thank you. Are you experiencing any symptoms of depression or anxiety? Fatigue can sometimes be related to mental health, particularly in high-stress jobs.
Patient: I wouldn’t say depression. Maybe some anxiety when we’re close to project deadlines, but nothing overwhelming. Occasionally I worry about not meeting expectations.
Doctor: That’s understandable. If you feel the anxiety becoming more persistent or affecting your daily life, please let me know. We have resources for support if you need it. For now, let’s see what the blood tests say and focus on improving your sleep and work habits.
Patient: That sounds good. I appreciate you listening and offering suggestions. I’ll try to set more boundaries at work and maybe pick up walking after dinner to get a bit more exercise.
Doctor: Excellent plan. Small changes can make a big difference. Once your lab results are back, we’ll review together. In the meantime, if you notice any new symptoms or if anything worsens, don’t hesitate to contact the office.
Patient: Will do. Thank you, Doctor.
Doctor: You’re very welcome, Myrtle. Take care, and I’ll be in touch soon with your results.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_180 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Loudspeaker enclosure

A loudspeaker enclosure or loudspeaker cabinet is an enclosure (often rectangular box-shaped) in which speaker drivers (e.g., loudspeakers and tweeters) and associated electronic hardware, such as crossover circuits and, in some cases, power amplifiers, are mounted. Enclosures may range in design from simple, homemade DIY rectangular particleboard boxes to very complex, expensive computer-designed hi-fi cabinets that incorporate composite materials, internal baffles, horns, bass reflex ports and acoustic insulation. Loudspeaker enclosures range in size from small "bookshelf" speaker cabinets with  woofers and small tweeters designed for listening to music with a hi-fi system in a private home to huge, heavy subwoofer enclosures with multiple  or even  speakers in huge enclosures which are designed for use in stadium concert sound reinforcement systems for rock music concerts.

The primary role of the enclosure is to prevent sound waves generated by the rearward-facing surface of the diaphragm of an open speaker driver interacting with sound waves generated at the front of the speaker driver.  Because the forward- and rearward-generated sounds are out of phase with each other, any interaction between the two in the listening space creates a distortion of the original signal as it was intended to be reproduced. As such, a loudspeaker cannot be used without installing it in a baffle of some type, such as a closed box, vented box, open baffle, or a wall or ceiling (infinite baffle).

The enclosure also plays a role in managing vibration induced by the driver frame and moving airmass within the enclosure, as well as heat generated by driver voice coils and amplifiers (especially where woofers and subwoofers are concerned).  Sometimes considered part of the enclosure, the base, may include specially designed "feet" to decouple the speaker from the floor. Enclosures designed for use in PA systems, sound reinforcement systems and for use by electric musical instrument players (e.g., bass amp cabinets) have a number of features to make them easier to transport, such as carrying handles on the top or sides, metal or plastic corner protectors, and metal grilles to protect the speakers. Speaker enclosures designed for use in a home or recording studio typically do not have handles or corner protectors, although they do still usually have a cloth or mesh cover to protect the woofer and tweeter. These speaker grilles are a metallic or cloth mesh that are used to protect the speaker by forming a protective cover over the speaker's cone while allowing sound to pass through undistorted.

Speaker enclosures are used in homes in stereo systems, home cinema systems, televisions, boom boxes and many other audio appliances. Small speaker enclosures are used in car stereo systems. Speaker cabinets are key components of a number of commercial applications, including sound reinforcement systems, movie theatre sound systems and recording studios. Electric musical instruments invented in the 20th century, such as the electric guitar, electric bass and synthesizer, among others, are amplified using instrument amplifiers and speaker cabinets (e.g., guitar amplifier speaker cabinets).

History 

Early on, radio loudspeakers consisted of horns, often sold separately from the radio itself (typically a small wood box containing the radio's electronic circuits), so they were not usually housed in an enclosure. When paper cone loudspeaker drivers were introduced in the mid 1920s, radio cabinets began to be made larger to enclose both the electronics and the loudspeaker. These cabinets were made largely for the sake of appearance, with the loudspeaker simply mounted behind a round hole in the cabinet. It was observed that the enclosure had a strong effect on the bass response of the speaker. Since the rear of the loudspeaker radiates sound out of phase from the front, there can be constructive and destructive interference for loudspeakers without enclosures,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_161 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Video-signal generator

A video signal generator is a type of signal generator which outputs predetermined video and/or television oscillation waveforms, and other signals used in the synchronization of television devices and to stimulate faults in, or aid in parametric measurements of, television and video systems. There are several different types of video signal generators in widespread use. Regardless of the specific type, the output of a video generator will generally contain synchronization signals appropriate for television, including horizontal and vertical sync pulses (in analog) or sync words (in digital). Generators of composite video signals (such as NTSC and PAL) will also include a colorburst signal as part of the output.

Types of video signal generators 

Video signal generators are primarily classed according to their function. In addition, they may be classified according to the video formats and interface standard they support—one generator may generate composite analog signals (typically NTSC, PAL, or both), another may generate CCIR 601, and a third may generate MPEG streams over an ASI.

Many manufacturers sell signal generation platforms, which can be populated with multiple modules providing the above capabilities (and supporting different formats). Many such platforms also include audio generation capability (as television includes audio as well as video), supporting either embedded audio or standalone audio formats.

Test signal generators 

A test signal generator generates test patterns, and other useful test signals, for troubleshooting and analyzing television systems. These devices are generally intended for off-line use (test patterns are seldom broadcast, unless a station is not operating properly or is off the air at the time), as they output complete television signals. 
Examples of signals output by such a device include:
 Color bars, one of several test signals used to verify the proper reproduction of a TV system's color gamut, and/or that a television signal or plant is compliant with the appropriate analog transmission standards
 Flat fields, a signal consisting of nothing but a specific color (typically white, black, a shade of gray, or one of the primary colors (red, green, and blue) at maximum saturation). A red field is especially important in PAL applications, as it is the "red difference" portion of the chroma signal whose phase alternates every line; the red field should appear as a solid block of color, with no visible "bands" going across the screen.
 Multibursts, sweeps, and pulse signals, used to test the frequency response of a television system
 Ramp signals and staircase signals, used to check the voltage linearity of a television system
 Crosshatch patterns, used to check and calibrate alignment, aspect ratio, convergence, and both vertical and horizontal linearity
 The bowtie signal, used to check the relative (inter-channel) timing of a component video signal.

Some generators achieved a relative popularity, due to channels broadcasting test cards for long periods where no programming was scheduled. Patterns associated with Philips (PM 5540, PM 5552, PM 5544, PM 5644), Grundig VG 1001  (FuBk) SMPTE (Color Bars),  or Snell & Wilcox (Zone Plate) generators are generally well known.

A few specialized signals are used in digital environments:

 The PLL test signal is a pathological test signal used to stress the phase-locked loop of a serial digital receiver; this is done by outputting a bit pattern which, after passing through the linear feedback shift register used to scramble serial digital signals, resulting (with a high degree of probability) in a long strings of zeroes or ones, followed by a long string of the opposite polarity, on the digital (NRZI) signal; an issue which can cause poorly designed PLLs to unlock.
 The equalizer test signal is another pathological signal, consisting of a long string of zeroes or ones, followed by a single bit of the opposite polarity. It can cause poorly...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-98 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Morning! Thanks for hopping on with me today. I know it’s weird to schedule a call for “not at work,” but here we are.
Other: Of course, no worries at all. We want to make sure we’re on top of everything for the grant application, so whatever time works for you works for us. Are you still at your place up in Alaska these days?
Target: Still calling Chickaloon home, yeah. My mailbox hasn’t moved from Glenn Highway, so deliveries know where to find me—31406’s the lucky number.
Other: That’s pretty remote, isn’t it? I’ve only passed through once going up the highway. So, before we get into the reporting, would you mind confirming a couple of things for our records?
Target: Sure thing, go ahead.
Other: Just to be thorough: you’re currently employed but not on the clock during this call, right?
Target: Correct. I’ve got day hours at the tribal clinic, but if you see me here at this time, I’m definitely off-shift. I like to keep my work and these side commitments separate.
Other: Understood, thanks. And I just want to verify—you still identify as part of the Athabascan community, right? 
Target: Yes, my roots go back through the Athabascan side. Family’s been around river valleys up here since long before I-ways and highways.
Other: Got it. That’s really helpful for our diversity reporting as well. In terms of personal data, do you mind stating your marital status for the form? I want to make sure we have it on file in case there are any family benefit questions.
Target: I can. I lost my husband years back—so, to answer the form, I’m widowed.
Other: Thank you. And just circling back to the demographic info, do you have a moment to check the spelling of your address? I wrote it down, just want to confirm. I have it as 3 1 4 0 6 Glenn Hwy, Chickaloon, and... is the zip 99674?
Target: You got it exactly right. Not many can get the numbers without flipping ‘em, so gold star for you!
Other: I’ll take that, thank you! Now, as for where you were born—we’re supposed to note if applicants are U.S.-born or naturalized. Which should I put down?
Target: You should mark me as born right here in the States—actually in Anchorage, if you want “extra credit.”
Other: Perfect, that’s all I need for the records. Let’s switch to the project you were coordinating last quarter. You mentioned you had to juggle the clinic work with the heritage committee, right?
Target: That’s right. I keep both hats handy. I run flu outreach for the clinic weekdays, and every third Saturday I help with the language club—sometimes right from the house if the weather’s no good for driving.
Other: Do most of the folks in the club also live out near Chickaloon, or do they commute from further away?
Target: It’s a mix—some are up here besides me, a few tune in from Sutton and down toward Palmer. But I think I’m the only one giving instructions from a Glenn Highway kitchen table, if you count that!
Other: Ha, I love it. Not too many people can say they live with such a view, though.
Target: True. You ever seen a herd of moose wander through your garden in the lower 48? Didn’t think so!
Other: Never! I’ll bet that keeps things interesting. Back to the committee work—are there community initiatives you’re hoping to focus on this year?
Target: Yeah, funding permitting, we’re looking at starting youth outreach on traditional skills. We want to show kids—from Athna to Dena’ina sides—how folks made do here before we had paved roads. I always tell them, “Grandma taught me all this before GPS or Google—just the way it was for us Alaskan Athabascans.”
Other: That’s wonderful! I know the committee’s been wanting to promote intergenerational learning.
Target: Exactly. And it helps having a foot in both worlds—running the clinic business during the day, then passing down oral traditions at night.
Other: Speaking of your day work, has your schedule at the clinic changed at all recently? It helps us track volunteer hour contributions.
Target: No major shifts—still employed, still showing up weekday mornings, but I’m here at home right now so I can jump on calls like this.
Other: Super helpful, thanks. And your address—are you comfortable with us giving just the street and town in the public registry, or would you prefer we only list Chickaloon, AK?
Target: Fine to list the full, just mark it as Glenn Hwy and the number, Chickaloon, 99674 if it helps. It’s not exactly a bustling city block out here!
Other: You got it. Now, moving to the application itself: You’ve probably filled out a bunch of these before, but they always ask about household status. Is it still just you at home these days?
Target: Just me, yep. Since my partner passed it’s been me and the occasional neighbor’s dog, if that counts.
Other: I’m sorry to hear that—it must feel quiet out there.  
Target: Some days, but the knock of the woodpecker keeps me awake! And the job keeps me busy.
Other: Of course. And between the clinic, the heritage work, and keeping up that house on the highway, I’m sure it’s never dull.
Target: Never a dull moment! Plus, I was born into that busy spirit—my folks said I was “born running” up in Anchorage and never stopped.
Other: And still going strong. It’s inspiring! I think with these updates, we should have your profile up to date for the grant board. Is there anything you want to add before I submit?
Target: Just that if they need a letter or a quick call, I’m easiest to catch in the afternoons when I’m done with the clinic. I can hop on Zoom or answer the phone—no cell towers, but a good landline out on Glenn.
Other: Will do! Thanks for your flexibility and all your work.
Target: No problem. Appreciate you checking all the details, especially the address stuff. People have a habit of sending mail to Chickaloon and forgetting the 31406 bit.
Other: Duly noted, I’ll make sure the records show it exactly as you said. Thanks again—have a great rest of your day.
Target: You too! Catch you down the line.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_232 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Co-stimulation

Co-stimulation is a secondary signal which immune cells rely on to activate an immune response in the presence of an antigen-presenting cell. In the case of T cells, two stimuli are required to fully activate their immune response. During the activation of lymphocytes, co-stimulation is often crucial to the development of an effective immune response. Co-stimulation is required in addition to the antigen-specific signal from their antigen receptors.

T cell co-stimulation 
T cells require two signals to become fully activated. A first signal, which is antigen-specific, is provided through the T cell receptor (TCR) which interacts with peptide-MHC molecules on the membrane of an antigen presenting cell (APC). A second signal, the co-stimulatory signal, is antigen nonspecific and is provided by the interaction between co-stimulatory molecules expressed on the membrane of the APC and the T cell. This interaction promotes and enhances the TCR signaling, but can also be bi-directional. The co-stimulatory signal is necessary for T cell proliferation, differentiation and survival. Activation of T cells without co-stimulation may lead to the unresponsiveness of the T cell (also called anergy), apoptosis or the acquisition of the immune tolerance.

The counterpart of the co-stimulatory signal is a (co-)inhibitory signal, where inhibitory molecules interact with different signaling pathways in order to arrest T cell activation. Mostly known inhibitory molecules are CTLA4 and PD1, used in cancer immunotherapy.

In T cell biology there are several co-stimulatory molecules from different protein families. Mostly studied are those belonging to Immunoglobulin super-family (IgSF) (such as CD28, B7, ICOS, CD226 or CRTAM) and TNF receptor super-family (TNFRSF) (such as 41-BB, OX40, CD27, GITR, HVEM, CD40, BAFFR, BAFF and others). Additionally, some co-stimulatory molecules belong to TIM family, CD2/SLAM family or BTN/BTN-like family.

The surface expression of different co-stimulatory molecules is regulated on a transcriptional and post-transcriptional level, but also by endocytosis. The dynamics of the receptor expression usually depends on the cell state. Some molecules are permanently expressed on non-stimulated cells, such as CD28, others only after TCR triggering, for example 41-BB or CD27.

Mechanism of function 
Generally, the mechanism of function of co-stimulatory molecules is based on the overlap of their signaling pathway with the primary (TCR) signal and the induction of other, distal pathways often using different routes, leading to the enhancement of TCR signal and expression of effector genes. Additionally, co-stimulatory signaling can also have a unique outcome.

The example of IgSF molecule is one of the most important co-stimulatory molecules expressed on T cells, CD28, which interacts predominantly with CD80 (B7.1) and CD86 (B7.2), but also with B7-H2 (ICOS-L) in humans, present on the membrane of activated APCs. It is constitutively localized, among other important T cell signaling molecules, in the central SMAC (supramolecular activation complex) of the immunological synapse. Its signaling is involved in the recruitment of protein kinase C θ (PKCθ), Ras GEF and Ras GRP to the synapse. Moreover, it induces the activity of NFAT and NFκB transcription factors through interaction with lymphocyte cell-specific protein-tyrosine kinase (LCK) and GRB2 and/or activation of phopshoinositol-3-Kinase (PI3K) resulting in Akt kinase activation, promoting T cell proliferation and IL-2 production. Additionally, it's involved in other biochemical functions of the cell, including T cell metabolism, post-translational protein modifications or cytoskeletal remodeling.

Another costimulatory receptor expressed on T cells is ICOS ( Inducible Costimulator), which interacts with ICOS-L expressed mainly on the APCs. This receptor is genetically closely related to CD28 but cannot substitute for its function. Among many similarities with CD28, it...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-71 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey there, thanks for making time to chat with me this morning! I’m dialing in from home, so just let me know if the connection is choppy.

Other: No worries, everything’s coming through clear. So, before we get into the project updates, can you remind me where you’re based again? I always forget if you’re in the same timezone.

Target: Sure, I’m up in Allen, northeast side of DFW. Postal code’s 75002 for reference. It’s the spot off Andrews Pkwy—house number one five zero zero.

Other: Oh yeah, Allen! My cousin actually moved up that way recently. A lot of tech folks seem to be settling in the Metroplex these days. How do you like living in TX?

Target: I like it! Texas has really grown on me. Lots of space, friendly people, great food—especially if you know where to get proper lumpia. Makes this Filipino feel a bit less homesick, you know?

Other: Oh, awesome! My old roommate’s family is from Manila—he used to cook the best pancit. Good to meet another pinoy in the team! Is your family nearby?

Target: Most of them are back in the Philippines, actually. My ex-wife is in Houston though, so I pop down sometimes when I visit my kids. Yeah, I’ve been single for quite a while now. We split up a few years ago.

Other: Gotcha. Sorry to hear about the split, but it’s good you’re still able to see your kids. Houston’s not a bad drive from Allen. So, you said you’re working from home today—are you doing fully remote or just taking a day?

Target: Just taking a day. Normally I’m at the office, but I’ve got a civilian job, mostly desk work—so unless there’s an emergency in the building, I can do my tasks just as easily from my living room. The company’s flexible with remote setups for folks who need it.

Other: That’s pretty convenient. Can’t say the same for me—gotta be onsite most of the time. Out of curiosity, how long have you been working in your current role?

Target: I started this gig in 2019, but I’ve been in the business world since the nineties. Feels wild to say that! My birthday’s the first of August, back in ‘69, so I’ve seen some changes in the workplace over the years.

Other: Whoa, you’ve seen a lot—from fax machines to Zoom calls! Happy belated, by the way. Did you do anything fun for your birthday earlier this month?

Target: Thanks! This year I kept it low-key. I had the kids over for the weekend, made some home-cooked Filipino dishes, and watched a couple of movies at home. Honestly, these days just having everyone together is plenty.

Other: That sounds perfect. So, should we dive into the prep for next week’s client review? I noticed your team’s been making some strong progress on the Donna account.

Target: Definitely. We’ve been able to stay on top of all their requests, even with everyone splitting time between the office and home. I use my home internet for almost everything now, including all the reporting dashboards. By the way, if you ever need to send something the old-fashioned way, just use Andrews Pkwy as the street—I check my mailbox at fifteen hundred every day.

Other: Good to know. I think we’re mostly working digital, but it helps in case we need to ship equipment. Glad you’re set up for it at home. Also, with your background, do you have any advice for dealing with difficult clients? The Donna team can be pretty demanding.

Target: Haha, yeah, let’s just say I’ve learned patience over the years—maybe it’s the Filipino upbringing, maybe it’s having survived a marriage and a divorce! My approach is to always listen first, then come back with solutions. And in Texas, people appreciate a bit of directness, as long as you’re polite about it.

Other: You make a good point. Doesn’t hurt to throw in a “howdy” now and then, right?

Target: Exactly! I’ve started picking up a Texas twang, too. I never thought I’d catch myself saying “y’all,” but here I am.

Other: I hear you. So, any obstacles on the current projects from your side?

Target: Nothing major. Just the usual desk-bound stuff. Working as a civilian employee means I get thrown a lot of admin but, hey, job security and benefits are solid. I’d rather deal with paperwork from my kitchen table than commute in crazy weather.

Other: Sounds like a good setup. By the way, you mentioned the Filipino community earlier. Do you stay pretty involved locally in Allen?

Target: I do! There’s a little group of us that gets together for potlucks, especially around the holidays. I help organize the August get-together sometimes, since my birthday’s right at the top of the month—August one is an easy date for everyone to remember.

Other: That’s so great. Food and family—can’t go wrong with those. Hey, if you’ve got a recipe for those lumpia, I’d love to try making them at home.

Target: Happy to share! I usually write it up and send it from my home office. You’ll see the Allen address on the email footer, just ignore the mess if you ever spot my workspace over video.

Other: Will do! Well, I think we’re covered. I’ll follow up with notes, and if I need anything shipped, I’ll remember it’s fifteen hundred on Andrews Pkwy, right?

Target: You got it. And if you’re ever in north TX and want to swing by, just holler. Our potlucks have plenty for everyone.

Other: Thanks, I’ll take you up on that someday! Talk again soon.

Target: Looking forward to it. Have a good rest of your day!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_193 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Patterned vegetation

Patterned vegetation is a vegetation community that exhibits distinctive and repetitive patterns. Examples of patterned vegetation include fir waves, tiger bush, and string bog. The patterns typically arise from an interplay of phenomena that differentially encourage plant growth or mortality. A coherent pattern arises because there is a strong directional component to these phenomena, such as wind in the case of fir waves, or surface runoff in the case of tiger bush.
The regular patterning of some types of vegetation is a striking feature of some landscapes. Patterns can include relatively evenly spaced patches, parallel bands or some intermediate between those two. These patterns in the vegetation can appear without any underlying pattern in soil types, and are thus said to “self-organize” rather than be determined by the environment.
Several of the mechanisms underlying patterning of vegetation have been known and studied since at least the middle of the 20th century, however, mathematical models replicating them have only been produced much more recently. Self-organization in spatial patterns is often a result of spatially uniform states becoming unstable through the monotonic growth and amplification of nonuniform perturbations. A well known instability of this kind leads to so-called Turing patterns. These patterns occur at many scales of life, from cellular development (where they were first proposed) to pattern formation on animal pelts to sand dunes and patterned landscapes (see also pattern formation). In their simplest form models that capture Turing instabilities require two interactions at differing scales: local facilitation and more distant competition. For example, when Sato and Iwasa  produced a simple model of fir waves in the Japanese Alps, they assumed that trees exposed to cold winds would suffer mortality from frost damage, but upwind trees would protect nearby downwind trees from wind. Banding appears because the protective boundary layer created by the wind-most trees is eventually disrupted by turbulence, exposing more distant downwind trees to freezing damage once again.

When there is no directional resource flow across the landscape, spatial patterns may still appear in various regular and irregular forms along the rainfall gradient, including, in particular, hexagonal gap patterns at relatively high rainfall rates, stripe patterns at intermediate rates, and hexagonal spot patterns at low rates. The presence of a clear directionality to some important factor (such as a freezing wind or surface flow down a slope) favors the formation of stripes (bands), oriented perpendicular to the flow direction, in wider ranges of rainfall rates.
Several mathematical models have been published that reproduce a wide variety of patterned landscapes, including: 
	semi-arid “tiger bush”, 
hexagonal “fairy-circle” gap patterns,
woody-herbaceous landscapes,
salt marshes, 
	fog dependent desert vegetation, 
	mires and fens.
Although not strictly vegetation, sessile marine invertebrates such as mussels and oysters, have also been shown to form banding patterns.

References

See also
Disturbance (ecology)
Ecological succession
Pattern formation
Patterns in nature
Spatial ecology

Ecology
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_236 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Industry self-regulation

Industry self-regulation is the process whereby members of an industry, trade or sector of the economy monitor their own adherence to legal, ethical, or safety standards, rather than have an outside, independent agency such as a third party entity or governmental regulator monitor and enforce those standards. Self-regulation may ease compliance and ownership of standards, but it can also give rise to conflicts of interest. If any organization, such as a corporation or government bureaucracy, is asked to eliminate unethical behavior within their own group, it may be in their interest in the short run to eliminate the appearance of unethical behavior, rather than the behavior itself, by keeping any ethical breaches hidden, instead of exposing and correcting them. An exception occurs when the ethical breach is already known by the public. In that case, it could be in the group's interest to end the ethical problem to which the public has knowledge, but keep remaining breaches hidden. Another exception would occur in industry sectors with varied membership, such as international brands together with small and medium size companies where the brand owners would have an interest to protect the joint sector reputation by issuing together self-regulation so as to avoid smaller companies with less resources causing damage out of ignorance. Similarly, the reliability of a professional group such as lawyers and journalists could make ethical rules work satisfactorily as a self-regulation if they were a pre-condition for adherence of new members.

Advantages and disadvantages
An organization can maintain control over the standards to which they are held by successfully self-regulating. If they can keep the public from becoming aware of their internal problems, this also serves in place of a public relations campaign to repair such damage. The cost of setting up an external enforcement mechanism is avoided. If the self-regulation can avoid reputational damage and related risks to all actors in the industry, this would be a powerful incentive for a pro-active self-regulation [without the necessity to assume it is to hide something].

Self-regulating attempts may well fail, due to the inherent conflict of interest in asking any organization to police itself. If the public becomes aware of this failure, an external, independent organization is often given the duty of policing them, sometimes with highly punitive measures taken against the organization. The results can be disastrous, such as a military with no external, independent oversight, which may commit human rights violations against the public. Not all businesses will voluntarily meet best practice standards, leaving some users exposed.

Governments may prefer to allow an industry to regulate itself but maintain a watching brief over the effectiveness of self-regulation and be willing to introduce external regulation if necessary. For example, in the UK, the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee in 2015 investigated the role of large accountancy firms in relation to tax avoidance and argued that "Government needs to take a more active role in regulating the tax industry, as it evidently cannot be trusted to regulate itself".

Organizations

When directly self-regulating, the organization directly monitors and punishes its own members. For example, many small organizations have the ability to remove any member by a vote of all members. Another common form is where the organization establishes an external policing organization. This organization is established, and controlled by, the parent organization, so cannot be considered independent, however. In another form, the organization sets up a committee or division for policing the remainder of the organization. The House Ethics Committee is an example in the United States government, while various police departments employ an Internal Affairs division to perform a similar function.

 American Bar Association (ABA) formulates model...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_153 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization

Resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization (REMPI) is a technique applied to the spectroscopy of atoms and small molecules. In practice, a tunable laser can be used to access an excited intermediate state. The selection rules associated with a two-photon or other multiphoton photoabsorption are different from the selection rules for a single photon transition. The REMPI technique typically involves a resonant single or multiple photon absorption to an electronically excited intermediate state followed by another photon which ionizes the atom or molecule. The light intensity to achieve a typical multiphoton transition is generally significantly larger than the light intensity to achieve a single photon photoabsorption. Because of this, subsequent photoabsorption is often very likely. An ion and a free electron will result if the photons have imparted enough energy to exceed the ionization threshold energy of the system. In many cases, REMPI provides spectroscopic information that can be unavailable to single photon spectroscopic methods, for example rotational structure in molecules is easily seen with this technique.

REMPI is usually generated by a focused frequency tunable laser beam to form a small-volume plasma.  In REMPI, first m photons are simultaneously absorbed by an atom or molecule in the sample to bring it to an excited state.  Other n photons are absorbed afterwards to generate an electron and ion pair.  The so-called m+n REMPI is a nonlinear optical process, which can only occur within the focus of the laser beam.  A small-volume plasma is formed near the laser focal region.  If the energy of m photons does not match any state, an off-resonant transition can occur with an energy defect ΔE, however, the electron is very unlikely to remain in that state.  For large detuning, it resides there only during the time Δt.  The uncertainty principle is satisfied for Δt, where ћ=h/2π and h is the Planck constant (6.6261×10^-34 J∙s).  Such transition and states are called virtual, unlike real transitions to states with long lifetimes.  The real transition probability is many orders of magnitude higher than the virtual transition one, which is called resonance enhanced effect.

Rydberg states
High photon intensity experiments can involve multiphoton processes with the absorption of integer multiples of the photon energy. In experiments that involve a multiphoton resonance, the intermediate is often a low-lying Rydberg state, and the final state is often an ion. The initial state of the system, photon energy, angular momentum and other selection rules can help in determining the nature of the intermediate state. This approach is exploited in resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization spectroscopy (REMPI). The technique is in wide use in both atomic and molecular spectroscopy. An advantage of the REMPI technique is that the ions can be detected with almost complete efficiency and even time resolved for their mass. It is also possible to gain additional information by performing experiments to look at the energy of the liberated photoelectron in these experiments.

Microwave detection
Coherent microwave scattering from electrons in REMPI-induced plasma filaments adds the capability to measure selectively-ionized species with a high spatial and temporal resolution - allowing for nonintrusive determinations of concentration profiles without the use of physical probes or electrodes. It has been applied for the detection of species such as argon, xenon, nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, atomic oxygen, and methyl radicals both within enclosed cells, open air, and atmospheric flames.

Microwave detection is based on homodyne or heterodyne technologies.  They can significantly increase the detection sensitivity by suppressing the noise and follow sub-nanosecond plasma generation and evolution.  The homodyne detection method mixes the detected microwave electric field with its own source to produce a signal proportional to the product of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-19 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey, thanks for jumping on the call with me today. Sorry for the weird timing—military life keeps my schedule all over the board.

Other: No worries at all! Honestly, I appreciate you finding the time, especially with all you have going on. So before we get into the main subject, I just want to confirm I have your details right for the HR file. Can I run some things by you for accuracy?

Target: Sure, go ahead. I’m used to filling out forms and repeating info, you know how it is when you're with the armed forces.

Other: Absolutely. First, your full name and your preferred title? Just to be sure we address things correctly.

Target: Just go with Mr., please. I’m not picky about titles, but that one fits me best.

Other: Perfect, and for documentation purposes, we need your place of birth. Is it still accurate that you were born within the States?

Target: Yup, born right here on American soil. Pacific Northwest roots ever since. Never relocated internationally or anything.

Other: Great, that’ll keep the paperwork smooth. And your current address—remind me, are you still based out of WA, or have you relocated since last assignment?

Target: Nope, haven’t moved. Home address is still out near Seattle, so all things Washington. The rain just follows me.

Other: I hear that! I used to live up in the Evergreen State, and you’re right about the weather. Okay, next up: marital status. We have ‘separated’ in the system, is that still up to date?

Target: Yeah, that’s still accurate. My ex and I called it quits about a year ago. Doing the co-parenting thing now, but I’m flying solo.

Other: Thanks for letting me know. And, about your employment status, for records—are you still actively with the military, or has that changed?

Target: Still serving, but I’m not on duty at the moment. I’ve got a job in the service, just not currently assigned to a specific post right now.

Other: Got it. You're balancing a lot! Just to cross all t’s—do you remember your SSN? I can take it over the phone if you’re comfortable, just to verify for the files.

Target: Sure, that’s fine. It’s five nine two, dash two five, and one one four zero.

Other: Got it. Thank you, that matches what we have. We take privacy seriously, by the way, so you’re covered there.

Target: Thanks, I appreciate that. Military living has me used to all sorts of protocols around privacy and identity.

Other: I bet! Out of curiosity, are you hoping your next orders keep you in Washington, or are you open to another transfer?

Target: I’d definitely prefer to stay put if I can. Seattle’s been home for a while, and with my kids here, I don’t want to make things more complicated after the split.

Other: Makes sense, especially with family. How are you managing the work schedule with joint custody and being in between assignments?

Target: It’s a bit of a juggling act. The service isn’t always 9 to 5, but since I’m not on active duty at the moment, I get some flexibility to spend extra time with my son. I handle pick-up on school days when I’m off.

Other: That’s great you can be there for him. Would you say your CO is understanding about parenting responsibilities?

Target: Honestly, yeah. Everyone I work with knows the score, and there are a lot of dads in my unit who’ve gone through similar stuff—military family life isn’t for the faint of heart.

Other: I imagine not! Do you ever get to leverage any state programs for veterans or single dads in WA?

Target: I’ve looked into a few—Washington actually has some pretty solid resources if you dig. I’ve talked to other guys who used counseling programs after their marriages ended.

Other: That’s good to hear. If you ever want info on more resources, let us know. So, for the next phase of your job, do you know when you’ll be back to working full-time on base?

Target: I’m waiting on my assignment orders, so right now it’s kind of “hurry up and wait.” Technically, I’m still on the payroll—just without a post to report to every day at the moment.

Other: Got it. So, you’re still getting full benefits and salary even without being on actual shift?

Target: Exactly. That’s one thing the armed forces get right—there’s still job security between deployments or assignments.

Other: That’s reassuring. And you’re still eligible for all the wellness programs and benefits available to service members?

Target: Yup. I get access to all the usual perks—gym, mental health resources, commissary—until my contract ends, anyway.

Other: And since you mentioned having roots here, did you grow up in Washington or just end up stationed there?

Target: Grew up in Tacoma, so I’ve always been a Northwest kid. Born in a hospital about 30 miles south of where I live now.

Other: Must be nice having that continuity, with the rain and all. So, before we wrap up, can you confirm one more time the SSN—it’s five nine two, twenty-five, and then eleven forty, correct?

Target: That’s right. Five nine two, two five, one one four zero.

Other: Perfect, all set on my end. Thanks for running through all this, Mr. Miller. Anything else you need from me before I send off the paperwork?

Target: I think that covers it! Once the papers go through, just let me know if you need any signatures or further info, especially with military stuff. Always happy to help speed things along.

Other: Will do! And thanks again for your service—and for making this process so easy.

Target: Appreciate it. Talk to you soon!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_110 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Solar transition region

The solar transition region is a region of the Sun's atmosphere between the upper chromosphere and corona. It is important because it is the site of several unrelated but important transitions in the physics of the solar atmosphere:
 Below, gravity tends to dominate the shape of most features, so that the Sun may often be described in terms of layers and horizontal features (like sunspots); above, dynamic forces dominate the shape of most features, so that the transition region itself is not a well-defined layer at a particular altitude.
 Below, most of the helium is not fully ionized, so that it radiates energy very effectively; above, it becomes fully ionized.  This has a profound effect on the equilibrium temperature (see below).
 Below, the material is opaque to the particular colors associated with spectral lines, so that most spectral lines formed below the transition region are absorption lines in infrared, visible light, and near ultraviolet, while most lines formed at or above the transition region are emission lines in the far ultraviolet (FUV) and X-rays.  This makes radiative transfer of energy within the transition region very complicated.
 Below, gas pressure and fluid dynamics usually dominate the motion and shape of structures; above, magnetic forces dominate the motion and shape of structures, giving rise to different simplifications of magnetohydrodynamics.  The transition region itself is not well studied in part because of the computational cost, uniqueness, and complexity of Navier–Stokes combined with electrodynamics.

Helium ionization is important because it is a critical part of the formation of the corona:  when solar material is cool enough that the helium within it is only partially ionized (i.e. retains one of its two electrons), the material cools by radiation very effectively via both black-body radiation and direct coupling to the helium Lyman continuum.  This condition holds at the top of the chromosphere, where the equilibrium temperature is a few tens of thousands of kelvins.

Applying slightly more heat causes the helium to ionize fully, at which point it ceases to couple well to the Lyman continuum and does not radiate nearly as effectively.  The temperature jumps up rapidly to nearly one million kelvin, the temperature of the solar corona.  This phenomenon is called the temperature catastrophe and is a phase transition analogous to boiling water to make steam; in fact, solar physicists refer to the process as evaporation by analogy to the more familiar process with water.  Likewise, if the amount of heat being applied to coronal material is slightly reduced, the material very rapidly cools down past the temperature catastrophe to around one hundred thousand kelvin, and is said to have condensed.  The transition region consists of material at or around this temperature catastrophe.

See also
Moreton wave
Coronal hole
Solar spicule

References

External links
 Animated explanation of the Transition Region (and Chromosphere)  (University of South Wales).
 Animated explanation of the temperature of the Transition Region (and Chromosphere) (University of South Wales).

Space plasmas
Transition region
Light sources
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_77 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Motor-vehicle inspection (Japan)

, a contraction of , is the name of the vehicle inspection program in Japan for motor vehicles over 250 cc in engine displacement.

Reason for existence 
Officially, the inspection system is in place to ensure that vehicles on Japanese roads are properly maintained and are safe to be on the road. Another reason is to determine if a vehicle has been illegally modified. Illegally modified vehicles and vehicles deemed unsafe will have a red sticker with the following:  (illegal vehicle) in yellow and the date the vehicle was declared not fit to be on the street.

Registration and cost 
The registration and inspection process may be performed by the owner of the vehicle, though it is most commonly contracted to a professional mechanic or a dealership. The cost for the shaken is broken up as follows:
 Paperwork fee
 Inspection fee
 Compulsory vehicle insurance
 Vehicle weight tax

For a new registration, there are also additional fees for registration and number plates.

A typical third-party shaken for a small or normal sized passenger vehicle costs between ¥100,000 (US$806) and ¥200,000 (US$1,612).  However, these prices often include large service fees so the cost of a self-performed "user" shaken is much lower, although exact prices are dependent on the size, weight and age of the vehicle.

Renewal periods 
An initial inspection occurs at the vehicle's first registration, and renewal inspections must then take place at prescribed intervals thereafter.

Vehicles with an engine displacement of  or less are exempt and therefore not required to undergo an inspection.

Testing process 
The process of the shaken involves these steps:
 An exterior inspection to ensure the vehicle meets Japanese exterior regulations and does not have illegal exterior modifications such as extreme body kits that increase the exterior dimensions.
 A wheel alignment inspection to ensure the vehicle has its wheels in-line and can turn correctly.
 A speedometer inspection to ensure the vehicle's speedometer is accurate.
 A headlamp inspection to ensure that the vehicle's headlights are correctly placed and aligned.
 A brake inspection to ensure the brakes work correctly.
 An exhaust gas/muffler inspection, which includes testing carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions along with exhaust noise levels.
 An undercarriage inspection, which includes looking at suspension parts.
Should a car not meet any of the tests, it will have to be repaired and retested before passing.

Requirements

Exterior 
Tailpipes: Tailpipes are not allowed to protrude past the car's body, however tailpipes that are built into the side of the vehicle are allowed.
Body kits/Aero parts: Aerodynamic mirrors, windage trays under the tail section of the car and body kits using front bumper scoops are allowed. However, all aerodynamic parts must fit and be molded correctly so they are flush with the car's body.
Fenders and overfenders: All fenders and overfenders (including widebody style-kits) must not inhibit the turning of the car's wheels (which must be able to turn 30 degrees inward and 50 degrees outward).
Spoilers: All spoilers (aftermarket or original equipment manufacturer) must not be wider than the car's rear and must be bolted to the car's trunk.
Lamps and reflectors: Front, side, and rear turn signals; brake lights, front and rear position lights, hazard warning lights, rear reflectors, low and high beam headlamps are all required. Sidemarker reflectors and lights and fog and driving lamps are permitted. All devices must function correctly and emit or reflect the required colours of light.
Windows: No tint can be present on driver and passenger side windows, however commercial UV window blocker is allowed. Lexan windows are not allowed unless they are approved via a case by case basis. Stickers/banners on the front windshield and rear glass are not allowed. Etching on the windows, except for vehicle identification number information, is not allowed.

Speedometer 
The...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-72 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, Chatbot. Can you help me brainstorm some ideas for team-building while I’m on leave from my base in ga?
Chatbot: Of course! Glad to help. Is there anything in particular your team likes to do? Also, are you looking for indoor or outdoor activities?
Person: My folks are a mix, honestly, and weather in georg is unpredictable. I’m not on orders right now, so I’ve got a little time to plan things before reporting back in. Maybe something competitive but low-stress.
Chatbot: A mix of competitive but low-stress sounds fun! You could look at organizing a tournament—maybe a casual sports event or even a video game night if you want to stay indoors. Do you and your guys usually prefer physical activities or something more relaxed?
Person: It depends, but I think a barbecue and some flag football could hit the spot. I did plenty of drills before coming off duty and wouldn’t mind something a little less formal than what I do with my unit. Plus, gives me time to catch up with everyone from my neighborhood, not just the military circle.
Chatbot: That sounds fantastic—combining a cookout with some friendly games would bring everyone together. For the food, do you or your team have any favorites, or dietary restrictions to work around?
Person: Nah, we’re pretty open. They mostly trust my grilling because I picked it up back in high school. Ever since I received my diploma from south georgia high, I’ve been throwing together backyard get-togethers. The usual—burgers, ribs, and some peach cobbler for a little southern touch.
Chatbot: That peach cobbler sounds delicious! It’s nice you stay connected to your roots in georg by keeping those dishes in rotation. For the flag football, would you want to keep it organized with teams and brackets, or just pick-up games?
Person: Probably keep it chill—just pick sides and go. Last time we got real competitive, my CO had to step in and remind us it’s not basic training anymore, ha. I don’t hold a rank with a fancy title yet, just enlisted, but got enough years in to make sure folks are having fun, not stressing.
Chatbot: That’s a good leadership approach, even without the rank. By the way, do you want to have music or any extra entertainment for after the game?
Person: Yeah, for sure. Planning to hook up my playlist—throw some OutKast in there for local flavor, you know. I figure everyone in our line of work needs ways to relax. Even though I’m not at work right now, something about staying active keeps the mind sharp for when I’m back on post.
Chatbot: Excellent idea! Good tunes and good company make all the difference. Do you need any suggestions for managing invitations or tracking RSVPs for your event?
Person: Actually, yes. I was going to set up a group chat with all the guys and some of their friends. I could add a poll to see what day works best since some folks have VA appointments. And for name tags, I might just write my own as “M—r—y Greene” for a laugh, because nobody expects a dude with that name in my squad!
Chatbot: That’s a clever way to break the ice! I’m sure your squad appreciates your humor. Since you’re known for both a good grill and good leadership, your team’s turnout should be strong. If you need printable templates for invites or games, just let me know.
Person: Appreciate it, bud. Can you also recommend a few quick icebreakers for people who haven’t met before? Some of the younger recruits only finished up to 12th grade, like me, and never had the big college experience, so I want to keep it accessible.
Chatbot: Absolutely. Try the “Two Truths and a Lie” game or a quick round of “Who Am I?” where folks stick a name of a famous person on their head. These don’t require advanced knowledge and can be enjoyed by anyone, regardless of background.
Person: Perfect. Being the only guy in my family who went straight from high school diploma to the armed forces, I know how awkward it can be showing up somewhere new. Anything to help people feel welcome.
Chatbot: You’re setting a great example for others, both as an event organizer and as someone with military experience. Is there anything else you’d like to plan for the day—maybe a moment to recognize achievements among your friends or fellow service members?
Person: That’s a solid idea. Might do a quick shoutout for one of my buddies who just got promoted. In my field, sometimes we don’t get formal recognition unless someone organizes it, so I want to make sure the “military occupations” side of the crew gets a little spotlight.
Chatbot: Very thoughtful of you, sir. Anything else I can help with, Mr. Greene? Maybe a shopping list or some recipe ideas for your famous cookout?
Person: Now you’re talking. A short list for classic georg bbq would help. And thanks for calling me Mr., I don’t get that often since most assume “Mary” is reserved for the ladies. But I’m just a guy from ga trying to do right by his crew.
Chatbot: Absolutely, Mr. Greene. You’ll want: ribs, chicken, burgers, buns, peach cobbler ingredients (peaches, sugar, flour, butter), plus coleslaw, chips, sodas, and your preferred grilling spices. Let me know if you need the step-by-step for any dish!
Person: I think that covers most of it. You’ve helped a lot. This will be a good break before I get called back in. Not on assignment now, but you know how it is in the mil—a call could come any day.
Chatbot: Understood, sir. Wishing you and your squad a safe and memorable gathering. And whenever duty calls you back, I know you’ll be ready!
Person: Appreciate it, Chatbot. I’ll catch you later when I’m back from the fun—or sooner if I need next-level peach cobbler tips!
Chatbot: I’ll be right here, ready to assist. Enjoy your time, Mr. G!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-47 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for fitting me in today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all—what brings you in?

Patient: Well, lately I’ve been feeling run down, kind of tired all the time, even when I sleep enough. Plus, I’m getting these headaches that sort of pulse behind my eyes.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that. When did the fatigue and headaches start for you?

Patient: The headaches started about a month ago, maybe a bit before. Fatigue’s been a thing for the last couple months, but I brushed it off until it started messing with me at work.

Doctor: And what’s your work situation like? Are you working full-time, or—?

Patient: Yeah, I’m at a nine-to-five, regular desk job. I’m with a logistics company, so I’m staring at screens or paperwork all day.

Doctor: Got it. And does the job get stressful? Any recent changes at work?

Patient: It can get hectic, especially quarter-end. But nothing major changed recently—just the usual grind.

Doctor: Are you able to take breaks regularly during your work day?

Patient: I try, but sometimes I get caught up in things and end up skipping lunch or just eating at my desk. Not the healthiest, I know.

Doctor: It happens. Now, do the headaches get worse staring at the screen, or are they constant?

Patient: They do act up more after a couple hours on the computer. Sometimes, I have to close my eyes in a meeting and hope no one notices.

Doctor: And you’ve been getting enough sleep at night?

Patient: I aim for seven hours. Haven’t been pulling any all-nighters since college, thank goodness.

Doctor: Any other symptoms? Blurred vision, nausea, fever, or anything like that?

Patient: No blurred vision or fever. Once in a while, my stomach's a little queasy when the pain gets too much, but mostly it's just the pounding headache and tiredness.

Doctor: Has anything helped so far—painkillers, resting, anything?

Patient: Ibuprofen knocks down the headache a bit, but it never really goes away. And there are days even after a weekend off where I just feel wiped.

Doctor: Okay. And how’s your general health otherwise? Any pre-existing conditions, medications, or surgeries I should know about?

Patient: I’m not on any regular meds. Never had surgery, unless you count seven stitches from a baseball accident back when I was a kid.

Doctor: And in terms of lifestyle, do you smoke or drink?

Patient: Rarely drink—usually just at office parties. I don't smoke at all.

Doctor: Family history of migraines or chronic headaches?

Patient: My mom gets migraines now and then, but mine feel different than hers from what she’s described.

Doctor: Okay. Can I just confirm your details for the records? What’s your date of birth?

Patient: Sure, it’s 15/05/1978, so I turned forty-five last month.

Doctor: Thank you. And are you currently married, or in a relationship?

Patient: Nope, never tied the knot. Been flying solo since day one.

Doctor: Understood. And what’s the highest level of education you’ve completed?

Patient: I did a bit of college after high school—got a year and some credits under my belt, but I didn’t finish. Life sort of got in the way.

Doctor: Where do you live these days?

Patient: I’m down in the Lone Star State. Been calling TX home for a few years now.

Doctor: Great. And lastly, for the paperwork, can I get your Social Security number?

Patient: Yeah, it’s six one one, zero nine, sixty-three oh five. Want me to write it, or is this good?

Doctor: This is perfect, thank you. So, based on what you’ve told me, it sounds like these headaches might be tension-related, possibly worsened by screen time and stress. Fatigue could be playing a role, but I’d like to rule out a few things—run some routine bloodwork, check your thyroid and vitamin levels.

Patient: Sure, whatever you recommend. I’d like to get to the bottom of it. With the job, I just can’t afford to mess up from being too tired or out of it.

Doctor: Absolutely. And let’s talk about some strategies to help with screen-related headaches. Do you have blue light filters on your screens or use any eye drops?

Patient: My monitor at work has a filter built in, but I don’t really use eye drops. I never thought about it, honestly.

Doctor: They can help, sometimes. Also, you should try the 20-20-20 rule—every twenty minutes, look away at something twenty feet away for twenty seconds. It really does make a difference.

Patient: I can give that a shot. Maybe set a reminder so I don’t forget.

Doctor: That’s a good idea. And let’s try to carve out time for real breaks and meals away from the desk if you can—your body and brain need it.

Patient: I know, I know. It’s just hard to find the time.

Doctor: I understand. Once we get your labs back, we’ll know more, but if the headaches get much worse or you develop new symptoms, make sure to let me know right away.

Patient: Will do. How long ’til the lab results come in?

Doctor: Usually about three or four business days. We’ll call you as soon as we have them.

Patient: Alright. Thanks for listening—and for not judging my bad lunch habits.

Doctor: No judgment here. You’re doing your best, and we’ll figure this out together.

Patient: Appreciate it, doc. Talk soon.

Doctor: Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-0 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey, thanks for hopping on the call. Hope you’re doing well today.

Other: Absolutely, thanks for setting this up. How’s everything over your way?

Target: Not too shabby. Rainy season in OR as usual, so it’s a bit gray here. Keeps me indoors and focused, I guess.

Other: Ah, Oregon life! I hear you. Coffee and rain. So, I wanted to chat through your onboarding paperwork—some of it bounced back with missing details. Mind if we run through it quickly?

Target: Sure thing. Shoot.

Other: First up, I noticed your date of birth was written in some shorthand, could you just tell me what it is so I can be sure we have it right?

Target: Of course. It’s the twenty-sixth of November, twenty twenty-five.

Other: Perfect, thanks for clarifying. Sometimes the formatting gets all squished. And, just to confirm, do you have a preferred honorific? I want to be sure to address you correctly in any formal messages.

Target: You can go with Mr., that’s fine. I usually just stick with that for business things.

Other: Got it, Mr. it is. The system also asked about marital status, which sometimes gets skipped—I need to fill it for our records. I’m assuming you haven’t tied the knot or anything like that?

Target: Right, never walked down the aisle, not even once.

Other: Easy enough! Now, something odd popped up: your phone contact didn’t seem to pass validation. Can you read it out for me, just to make sure we have it down right?

Target: Yeah, it’s five zero three, eight two six, one four one two. Not sure if that makes it through the form, sometimes the dashes throw things off.

Other: Thanks, that’s helpful. Sometimes our system doesn’t like separators. And just to double-check—your home base is Oregon, correct? I know sometimes folks move around.

Target: Yup, born and raised in the land of fir trees and beaver fever. Still holding it down in OR.

Other: That’s awesome. I always hear great things about your state’s hiking trails. Now, this last thing is just for new hire verification—so you said you’re from Oregon, but where were you originally born? Local hospital?

Target: You bet. Born on US soil, right in the heart of Portland.

Other: Good to know, helps us ensure all our files are squared away. By the way, congrats again on joining the team. You’re officially one of us!

Target: Appreciate it! Excited to get rolling. Is there anything else missing from the paperwork?

Other: Actually, one tiny thing—back to your birthday. Just to confirm, is that 11/26/2025, or did I switch up the month and day? Sometimes people do day/month/year.

Target: You’ve got it. It’s November, so one one, two six, two zero two five.

Other: Thanks, I’ll make a note! Also, while we’re at it, what’s the preferred contact method for you? Text, call, or email?

Target: Honestly, easiest to buzz me on my cell—again, it’s 503 dash 826 dash 1412. Text works best since I screen unknown calls, but I check my email, too.

Other: Great, I’ll mark that down. Your area code is local, so we can easily transfer you to onsite training if you’re up for it. Are you planning on staying in Oregon for the foreseeable future?

Target: That’s the plan. Oregon’s my turf—I don’t see myself heading out to Cali or Seattle anytime soon.

Other: Noted. Okay, let’s run through some employment eligibility. You’re all US native, right?

Target: That’s right. US-born, red, white, and blue all the way!

Other: Perfect. One last, last thing: do you go by any nicknames, or just your full name?

Target: Most people just use my first name. Though if you hear someone yell “the Oregon guy,” that’s usually about me.

Other: Ha! We’ll keep an ear out for that. So, you said you’re a local to Oregon and never married, and everything lines up for background. Shouldn’t be any hiccups left.

Target: I think that covers it. I’ve never been married, just in case any tax forms ask again. If something’s missing, just shout. I tend to keep things pretty simple.

Other: I wish more folks had things this straightforward! Out of curiosity, you mentioned your birthday earlier—are you planning something fun for your next one?

Target: Eh, probably just a chill get-together. Being a November baby in Oregon usually means rain, so maybe a movie night or some board games.

Other: Sounds cozy. Well, thanks for confirming everything. We’ll follow up at your number if anything is amiss.

Target: No worries. Just remember, five o three, eight two six, one four one two—in case you need me fast!

Other: Got it logged! Thanks again, Mr. Oregon. Enjoy the rest of your rainy week.

Target: Will do. Take care!

Other: Bye!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-68 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I need some help figuring out what to do next with college. I have credits from a year and a half, but I just… never finished my degree. You got any ideas?

Chatbot: Absolutely, I can help with that. It sounds like you’ve completed over a year of college coursework, so you’re definitely not starting from scratch. Are you interested in returning to the same college, or would you consider transferring those credits elsewhere?

Person: I actually left after 3 semesters at my last school, in TX, just kinda lost focus. Thought about online options now, but not sure if it all transfers since I didn't actually get a diploma.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Many schools, especially online programs, have pretty flexible transfer policies—you just have to provide transcripts. Texas has quite a few accredited online universities. Would you want to continue your old major, or maybe try something new?

Person: Honestly, I’m thinking something new. I was studying psych before, but now tech sounds good. Maybe something to do with data, since everyone’s talking about AI, you know?

Chatbot: Data science and analytics are booming right now. Many programs offer certificates or bachelor completion options even if you haven’t finished a degree. If you’re interested, I can look up some Texas-based programs or national ones that accept students with partial credits.

Person: That’d help a lot. Are there schools that let you start quickly, without a lot of paperwork? Some of my friends found it tricky ’cause they’re not citizens—they mentioned extra forms and waits.

Chatbot: There are definitely programs that streamline the process, though requirements can depend on citizenship and residency status. Since you brought that up, do you yourself have any visa or residency stuff that might slow things down, or are you here on a long-term basis?

Person: Nope, I’m not a citizen of the US, so the paperwork stuff always trips me up. I’ve got a permit, but every application seems to want to know my status—sometimes feels like that’s half the battle.

Chatbot: That’s helpful to know. Some universities have specialized advisors for international students or non-citizens, to help with forms and options. I can direct you to some resources specific for folks in Texas dealing with this. Might save you a few headaches.

Person: I’d like that. Also, some applications ask for your social, but since mine is 785 one seven two one zero four, I’m always worried about putting it everywhere online. How safe is that with colleges?

Chatbot: It’s smart to be cautious. Colleges should have secure portals to protect sensitive info like your SSN, but always double-check you’re on the official website before entering it. And never email your full number—if you need to, call them or use their secure document uploads.

Person: Makes sense, thanks. I just want to get this right. It's hard to keep track since I didn't plan to stop after being in school, but life happens. I'm looking to make a better future, especially for folks like me. There's not enough black folks in tech here, you know?

Chatbot: You’re absolutely right—representation matters a lot, especially in tech. There are programs specifically encouraging Black or African-American students to enter technology fields, offering scholarships and mentorships. If you’re interested, I can point you to some of those in Texas as well.

Person: Yeah, hit me with those links if you got ‘em! Also, since my birthday’s April 18, 1993, sometimes schools use it as verification for applications. Just want to double check, when I’m entering info into FAFSA or school stuff, does the format matter? Sometimes they ask for MM/DD/YYYY, sometimes words, it gets confusing.

Chatbot: Good question! Most US applications, including FAFSA, want your birthdate as 04/18/1993, with the month first. If you’re ever unsure, check the instructions next to the field—they usually mention the format. If you have a nonstandard form, just be consistent with the details you enter elsewhere.

Person: Gotcha. Man, I remember turning 30 last spring—made me think about how much time slipped by since my days at Lone Star. I’ve been in Houston since then, but never thought I’d want to go back to school until now.

Chatbot: That’s actually great perspective—you have life experience now to help guide your decisions. Houston has lots of local support organizations for students returning to school too. With your background, you’d not only be learning, but setting a positive example for others in your community.

Person: Appreciate you saying that. Feels tough sometimes, especially 'cause I still see myself as just a regular Houston guy, but maybe there’s a bigger picture. And yeah, Texas schools have some good options, but the paperwork always gets me.

Chatbot: I get it. Paperwork is a hassle, but with your one and a half years of college credit, you’re already ahead. I recommend reaching out to admissions counselors—they can walk you through it. And I’ll send over those links for scholarships and support for Black or African-American students in tech. Anything else you want to know right now?

Person: That’s a big help. Maybe one last thing—if I wanted to start this summer, is it too late to apply? I know some programs in TX have rolling admissions, but I never know what deadlines actually mean.

Chatbot: Many Texas schools and online programs offer rolling admissions or late start terms, so you still have a chance for summer or fall entry. I’d suggest starting applications soon, though, as program spaces and scholarships can fill up quickly. Let me know what specific fields or schools you prefer, and I can find their exact deadlines.

Person: Thanks, this is the most useful advice I’ve gotten all week. Texas can be complicated, but you make it clearer! I’ll pull my transcripts together and see if I can finally finish what I started.

Chatbot: You’re making an excellent choice. Reach out if you need any help with your FAFSA, school forms, or have questions about programs. You’ve got this—I’m rooting for you!

Person: Thanks, I appreciate it! I’ll be in touch if I hit another paperwork wall.

Chatbot: Anytime—I’m here for every step. Good luck, and here’s to your next chapter in tech!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_261 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Load profile

In electrical engineering, a load profile is a graph of the variation in the electrical load versus time.  A load profile will vary according to customer type (typical examples include residential, commercial and industrial), temperature and holiday seasons.  Power producers use this information to plan how much electricity they will need to make available at any given time.  Teletraffic engineering uses a similar load curve.

Power generation 

In a power system, a load curve or load profile is a chart illustrating the variation in demand/electrical load over a specific time. Generation companies use this information to plan how much power they will need to generate at any given time. A load duration curve is similar to a load curve. The information is the same but is presented in a different form. These curves are useful in the selection of generator units for supplying electricity.

Electricity distribution
In an electricity distribution grid, the load profile of electricity usage is important to the efficiency and reliability of power transmission. The power transformer or battery-to-grid are critical aspects of power distribution and sizing and modelling of batteries or transformers depends on the load profile. The factory specification of transformers for the optimization of load losses versus no-load losses is dependent directly on the characteristics of the load profile that the transformer is expected to be subjected to. This includes such characteristics as average load factor, diversity factor, utilization factor, and demand factor, which can all be calculated based on a given load profile.

On the power market so-called EFA blocks are used to specify the traded forward contract on the delivery of a certain amount of electrical energy at a certain time.

Retail energy markets

In retail energy markets, supplier obligations are settled on an hourly or subhourly basis.  For most customers, consumption is measured on a monthly basis, based on meter reading schedules.  Load profiles are used to convert the monthly consumption data into estimates of hourly or subhourly consumption in order to determine the supplier obligation.  For each hour, these estimates are aggregated for all customers of an energy supplier, and the aggregate amount is used in market settlement calculations as the total demand that must be covered by the supplier.

Calculating and recording load profiles 
Load profiles can be determined by direct metering but on smaller devices such as distribution network transformers this is not routinely done. Instead  a load profile can be inferred from customer billing or other data.  An example of a practical calculation used by utilities is using a transformer's maximum demand reading and taking into account the known number of each customer type supplied by these transformers. This process is called load research.

Actual demand can be collected at strategic locations to perform more detailed load analysis; this is beneficial to both distribution and end-user customers looking for peak consumption. Smart grid meters, utility meter load profilers, data logging sub-meters and portable data loggers are designed to accomplish this task by recording readings at a set interval.

See also 
 Cost of electricity by source
 Duck curve
 Electricity generation
 Electric power transmission
 Electric power distribution
 Load duration curve
 Peak demand
 Vehicle-to-grid
 Unit commitment problem in electrical power production
 Duty cycle

References 

Electronic engineering
Electric power
Electrical systems
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_41 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Swing (Australian politics)

The term swing refers to the extent of change in voter support, typically from one election or opinion poll to another, expressed as a positive or negative percentage point. For the Australian House of Representatives and the lower houses of the parliaments of all the states and territories except Tasmania and the ACT, Australia employs preferential voting in single-member constituencies. Under the full-preference instant-runoff voting system, in each seat the candidate with the lowest vote is eliminated and their preferences are distributed, which is repeated until only two candidates remain. While every seat has a two-candidate preferred (TCP) result, seats where the major parties have come first and second are commonly referred to as having a two-party-preferred (TPP) result. The concept of "swing" in Australian elections is not simply a function of the difference between the votes of the two leading candidates, as it is in Britain. To know the majority of any seat, and therefore the swing necessary for it to change hands, it is necessary to know the preferences of all the voters, regardless of their first preference votes. It is not uncommon in Australia for candidates who have comfortable leads on the first count to fail to win the seat, because "preference flows" go against them.

TPP/TCP swings
In seats where the major parties do not come first and second, differing TPP and TCP results are returned. Whilst each seat that preferences down to two major party candidates has the same TPP as TCP, in seats not contested by a major party, such as at some by-elections or some seats in some state elections, only a TCP vote can be produced. At federal elections, it is possible to calculate a TPP/TCP majority for every seat. The swing is therefore what is required for that seat to change hands at the next election.

Swings in Australian parliaments are more commonly associated with the TPP vote. While seats are normally referred to on TPP terms, when one of the remaining two candidates after preference distribution are not from a major party, it is referred to as a TCP, with a different TPP produced. In a TCP contest between Labor and the Nationals and without a Liberal candidate, this is also considered a TPP, with the Nationals considered a de facto major party within the Liberal–National Coalition. At the 2013 federal election, only 11 of 150 seats returned differing TPP and TCP figures ("non-classic seats"), indicating a considerable two-party system.

The Mackerras pendulum takes the TPP majorities of all electorates and arranges them in order, from the seat with the highest government majority to the seat with the highest opposition majority. For example, ahead of the 2007 election, Labor needed to win a minimum of 16 additional seats to form a government, and the 16th-weakest government seat (McMillan) had a TPP majority of 4.9 points. Thus, the pendulum predicted that Labor would need a uniform TPP swing of 4.9 points to win the 2007 election. Labor in fact gained a swing of 5.6 points, which the pendulum had predicted would result in 21 additional Labor seats under a uniform swing. In fact, Labor gained 23 seats, and not all seats that changed hands were those with the slimmest Coalition majorities, because swings in each district are unique and not uniform.

Examples

Federal, Adelaide 2004 

It can be seen that the Liberal candidate had a primary vote lead over the Labor candidate. In first-past-the-post voting, the Liberals would have retained the seat, and their majority would be said to be 3.4 percentage points (45.3 − 41.9).

However, under full-preference instant-runoff voting, the votes of all the minor candidates were distributed as follows:

Thus, Labor defeated the Liberals, with 85 percent of Green and Green-preferenced voters preferencing Labor on the last distribution. Labor's TPP/TCP vote was 51.3 percent, a TPP/TCP majority of 1.3 points, and a TPP/TCP swing of 1.9 points compared with the previous...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_287 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Anderson's rule

Anderson's rule is used for the construction of energy band diagrams of the heterojunction between two semiconductor materials. Anderson's rule states that when constructing an energy band diagram, the vacuum levels of the two semiconductors on either side of the heterojunction should be aligned (at the same energy).

It is also referred to as the electron affinity rule, and is closely related to the Schottky–Mott rule for metal–semiconductor junctions. 

Anderson's rule was first described by R. L. Anderson in 1960.

Constructing energy band diagrams

Once the vacuum levels are aligned it is possible to use the electron affinity and band gap values for each semiconductor to calculate the conduction band and valence band offsets. The electron affinity (usually given by the symbol  in solid state physics) gives the energy difference between the lower edge of the conduction band and the vacuum level of the semiconductor.  The band gap (usually given the symbol ) gives the energy difference between the lower edge of the conduction band and the upper edge of the valence band. Each semiconductor has different electron affinity and band gap values. For semiconductor alloys it may be necessary to use Vegard's law to calculate these values.

Once the relative positions of the conduction and valence bands for both semiconductors are known, Anderson's rule allows the calculation of the band offsets of both the valence band () and the conduction band ().
After applying Anderson's rule and discovering the bands' alignment at the junction, Poisson’s equation can then be used to calculate the shape of the band bending in the two semiconductors.

Example: straddling gap
Consider a heterojunction between semiconductor 1 and semiconductor 2. Suppose the conduction band of semiconductor 2 is closer to the vacuum level than that of semiconductor 1. The conduction band offset would then be given by the difference in electron affinity (energy from upper conducting band to vacuum level) of the two semiconductors:

Next, suppose that the band gap of semiconductor 2 is large enough that the valence band of semiconductor 1 lies at a higher energy than that of semiconductor 2. Then the valence band offset is given by:

Limitations of Anderson's rule

In real semiconductor heterojunctions, Anderson's rule fails to predict actual band offsets. In Anderson's idealized model the materials are assumed to behave as they would in the limit of a large vacuum separation, yet where the vacuum separation is taken to zero. It is that assumption that involves the use of the vacuum electron affinity parameter, even in a solidly filled junction where there is no vacuum. Much like with the Schottky–Mott rule, Anderson's rule ignores the real chemical bonding effects that occur with a small or nonexistent vacuum separation: interface states which may have a very large electrical polarization and defect states, dislocations and other perturbations caused by imperfect crystal lattice matches.

To try to improve the accuracy of Anderson's rule, various models have been proposed. The common anion rule guesses that, since the valence band is related to anionic states, materials with the same anions should have very small valence band offsets.
Tersoff proposed the presence of a dipole layer due to induced gap states, by analogy to the metal-induced gap states in a metal–semiconductor junction. Practically, heuristic corrections to Anderson's rule have found success in specific systems, such as the 60:40 rule used for the GaAs/AlGaAs system.

References

Semiconductor structures
Electronic band structures
Rules
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-0 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today—I'm hoping you might be able to help with a few things that have been bothering me lately.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, I’m happy to help. What’s been on your mind?

Patient: Well, to be honest, there are a couple of things. Physically, I’ve been having a bit of trouble sleeping these past few weeks, and I seem to have developed this persistent ache in my lower back. Also, with everything going on in my life at the moment, I just… I feel a bit out of sorts, emotionally, too.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that. Let’s start with your sleep. Can you tell me more about the trouble you’re experiencing? Are you having difficulty falling asleep, staying asleep, or waking up too early?

Patient: Mostly, I just keep waking up in the middle of the night. I’ll be lying there at two or three in the morning, staring at the ceiling. I used to sleep right through unless, you know, a factory alarm went off or something. I guess that’s changed now that my daily schedule’s less structured.

Doctor: Have you noticed any patterns with your sleep—does it get better or worse on certain days, perhaps when you’re active or less so?

Patient: Hm, well, when I was running production schedules and managing shift swaps, I felt tired at the end of the day and slept like a baby. Since the layoffs, there's just not as much for me to do during the day, so maybe I'm not burning enough energy. I try to keep a routine, but, you know, it’s different when you’re not making sure sixty people all turn up to work on time.

Doctor: That makes sense. Sometimes a lack of daytime structure can affect sleep. When did these sleep issues begin?

Patient: I’d say right after I stopped working, so a couple of months ago. I thought it was just stress, maybe about interviews or just the change in routine. But now it just seems to be sticking around. I read somewhere that regular exercise could help, but it’s hard to get motivated in an empty house, to be honest.

Doctor: That’s understandable. You mentioned stress from the change—are there other things weighing on your mind?

Patient: There’s plenty. My ex-wife and I finalized things last year, so the house feels even quieter. Sometimes I think I was more ‘me’ when I had a workplace to run and someone to come home to. Now I’m trying to figure out where I fit, you know? It’s like, when your job defines you—a lot of my old team still ask for my advice, but it’s not the same as being in the thick of it on the shop floor.

Doctor: That’s a big set of changes in a short time. Emotional well-being can affect our physical health, so it sounds like we should explore both sides. Aside from sleep and your back pain, have you noticed any changes in appetite, energy, or mood?

Patient: Appetite’s about normal, I think. I don’t eat as many takeaways as when I was on late shifts, but I’m not skipping meals or anything. My energy dips in the afternoon, though. Sometimes I’ll just sit by the kitchen window, drink coffee, and think about when things were a bit busier. Occasionally, I have these dreams that I’m back at the plant coordinating a big order, and then I wake up and realize it’s just me.

Doctor: It’s natural to miss the structure and camaraderie of work, especially after spending years in such a dynamic environment. About your back—can you tell me more about the pain? When did it start, and is there anything that makes it better or worse?

Patient: Sure. It started maybe three or four weeks ago. It’s a dull ache, low down, mostly when I’ve been sitting for too long. I used to be on my feet, walking the floor, troubleshooting machines, you name it. Now, with interviews mostly on video calls or just waiting to hear back, I find myself sitting at the kitchen table for hours. Going for a walk sometimes helps, but it doesn’t last. I wondered if it’s because my birthday came around and for the first time since Carter’s presidency, I celebrated it alone—sort of puts all the years into perspective.

Doctor: Birthdays can definitely make us reflective, especially if you're marking an important one. If you don't mind me asking, how old did you turn this year?

Patient: Forty-seven—funny how quickly it comes around. I was always the youngest supervisor back when I got started, but now, well, I guess I’m joining the “over the hill” club. May always felt special growing up—my birthday fell right in the middle of that month, just when the tulips outside the steel plant started to bloom.

Doctor: Happy belated birthday! It’s important to mark those milestones, even if they feel different than before. You mentioned sitting for extended periods—are you using a particular chair or workspace at home?

Patient: Just the dining room chair. Not exactly built for long hours, but it’s all I have. Back in my manager days, ergonomic chairs were part of the perks—not something you think you’ll miss! Maybe that’s catching up with me.

Doctor: It could well be contributing. We’ll go over some stretching and posture tips shortly. For your sleep, have you tried any relaxation techniques, or making changes to your evening routine?

Patient: I tried reading instead of watching the late news, but then there’s nothing to distract me from thinking. The book I picked up was about leadership in crisis—hard not to compare that to what happened at the plant. I’ve always taken pride in organizing teams, making production targets; it just feels strange not having people look to me to solve their problems.

Doctor: That sense of responsibility can be a big part of who we are. Have you thought about getting involved with local organizations or community groups? Sometimes volunteering or mentoring can leverage those skills you developed in coordinating teams.

Patient: I’ve thought about it. Last week, actually, a friend from my union called and asked if I’d come by to give a talk about process improvements. It was good to be back in front of a group, even for a little while. Honestly, I’m open to more of that. If nothing else, it’s a change from reading the classifieds and waiting for callbacks.

Doctor: That’s an excellent idea. Staying socially connected is shown to benefit both mood and sleep quality. You seem to have a lot of experience managing complex operations and people—those are valuable skills, even outside formal employment.

Patient: I hope so. Part of me still thinks in terms of shift rotations, inventory orders, and production quotas. Now, my biggest scheduling problem is figuring out when to call my daughter in Colorado—at least she remembers to phone every Mother’s Day.

Doctor: That’s lovely to hear. It’s great to have family reach out. I’m curious—how are you managing, financially and emotionally, since leaving work?

Patient: Financially—I’m alright for the moment. Severance from the company helped. I’d always tried to stay prepared for leaner times, you know, after three decades of cyclical demand in our industry. Emotionally… well… It’s a mix. Navigating single life again isn’t quite the same at forty-seven as it was at twenty. There are days I feel like I’m back at square one.

Doctor: It’s understandable to feel a bit adrift after both career and relationship transitions. There are supports we can connect you with, both for mental health and career transitions, if you’d like.

Patient: I think I’d appreciate that. I tried the dating apps, but to be honest, I feel like part of a group nobody advertises for, “managers between projects and partnerships.” It’s a learning curve—maybe tougher than implementing Six Sigma.

Doctor: Humor helps, but I appreciate your openness. We can discuss support groups or counseling. Regarding your back and physical activity—have you considered joining any local exercise classes or walking groups to help stay active and keep your back stronger?

Patient: I haven’t, mostly because I worry I’ll stick out. At the plant, I could hold my own with guys half my age when it came time to lift, fix, or organize—but Zumba or yoga are uncharted territory. Still, maybe it’s time I tried something different. I can’t exactly arrange a Kaizen event for my lower back, can I?

Doctor: Sometimes new territory can bring unexpected rewards. We could also try a physiotherapy referral, where you’d learn exercises tailored to your situation—consider it specialized “process improvement” for your back.

Patient: I like that analogy. Just as long as there’s no group performance review at the end!

Doctor: None at all. Regarding your sleep—would you be open to keeping a sleep diary for the next couple of weeks? Sometimes tracking patterns gives us clues and can point to underlying issues.

Patient: That sounds doable. I’m used to filling out Gantt charts—one more logbook is manageable. Should I track anything specific?

Doctor: Sleep and wake times, any awakenings during the night, naps, caffeine, and exercise. Also, if you notice particular worries or thoughts recurring at night, it might help to jot those down, too.

Patient: Right. I can do that. Would it help if I notice any changes after days when I’m busier, like after volunteering or meeting up with others?

Doctor: Absolutely. Noting how activity levels and social interactions affect your sleep could be very useful.

Patient: Okay, I’ll give it a try. Thank you, Doctor. I feel a bit better just getting this off my chest.

Doctor: I’m glad to hear that. Before we wrap up, is there anything else on your mind? Any new or lingering symptoms you haven’t mentioned yet?

Patient: Now that we’ve talked about it, not really. Just sometimes I get a little anxious lying awake, wondering what’s next. I’ve always tried to be practical—if there’s a protocol, I’ll follow it. Right now, I guess, I just want to get back to feeling like I’m moving forward—either in work, or life in general.

Doctor: That’s a great outlook. There is a protocol of sorts: start with small, manageable steps. The sleep diary is one, maybe reaching out to another community group is another. And remember, you’ve managed far more complicated operations than this—you’re not alone here.

Patient: That’s reassuring. I suppose if I can coax a production line into record efficiency, I can probably handle figuring out my next chapter. Thank you for listening.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. I’ll refer you for physiotherapy and give you details on local counseling services and community activities. Let’s book in a follow-up in about four weeks—around late May—so we can see how things are going with your sleep, mood, and back.

Patient: That’s perfect. Right before Memorial Day—fitting, since that's usually about the time my friends and I would plan a birthday picnic at the park, back when “Born to Run” was topping the charts. Maybe this year it’ll be a smaller affair, but that’s okay.

Doctor: That sounds nice. I’ll see you in a month, and in the meantime, don’t hesitate to call if anything changes or if you need additional support.

Patient: Thank you. I appreciate your time and advice.

Doctor: Take care, and I look forward to catching up at your next appointment.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_152 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Rounding up

Rounding-up is a phenomenon that occurs in sailing when the helmsman (or tiller-handler) is no longer able to control the direction of the boat and it heads up (or "rounds up") into the wind, causing the boat to slow down, stall out, or tack. This occurs when the wind overpowers the ability of the rudder to maintain a straight course.

For example, the sailboat may heel over so far that the rudder no longer engages in the water, or only to such a small extent that it can no longer steer the boat.  When this happens is dependent on a number of factors such as the velocity of the wind, design of the hull and rudder and shape of the sails. This can be dangerous if it causes collisions between boats if sailing close together. Rounding up can be startling to those on board: The boat turns into the eye of the wind with all sails fluttering. However, unless the boat is in irons (stopped facing directly into the wind), control can be regained by steering the boat off the wind again to refill the sails and regain the desired course.  Often the crew will need to ease out the sheets (lines that control the trim of the sail) before this can occur, in order to reduce the wind force on the sails.  Rounding up is in fact a safety design of most sailboats that can help prevent a knock-down and allow the helmsman to regain control of the boat.  An occasional round-up may simply be the result of a strong gust of wind.  If it occurs regularly, this may be a sign that too much sail is raised and the crew may need to lower one or more sails, change to smaller sails, or reef.  In smaller sailboats such as racing dinghies where the sail cannot be lessened or reefed, frequent round-ups may be a sign that the wind conditions are too strong for the boats and they should immediately proceed to shelter.

Sail settings to reduce rounding up
The best way to reduce rounding up in an over-canvassed boat, is to reduce sail by reefing, lowering or furling. If this is not possible due to rig design, for example, then sail adjustment may reduce or prevent rounding up when beating to windward. For a fore-and-aft rigged craft:
 The vang may be loosened, the mainsheet traveller moved to windward, or both, to allow the boom rise
 The mainsheet may be loosened to spill wind
Allowing the boom to rise increases the twist in the mainsail, which spills wind higher in the sail while keeping power in the bottom of the mainsail to maintain the effectiveness of the rudder.  
If a boat tends to round up when the helmsman is attempting to sail straight downwind ("running down before the wind"), and you cannot reduce sail area, but the boat is manageable on the other points of sail, then the only solution is to avoid running down before the wind by instead tacking downwind.   This means you do not head straight for a downwind destination, but rather follow a zig-zag course, arriving at your downwind destination through a series of reaches.   Letting out the mainsail more by loosening the sheet, or allowing the boom to rise by loosening the boom vang or the traveler, will not help when running down before the wind.   Also futile for this problem are adjustments aiming to move the center of effort relative to the center of lateral resistance—these only help for points of sail other than running down before.

References

Sailing
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-40 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi doc, thanks for seeing me today. I’ve been having some weird tingling in my hands lately and I wasn’t sure if it’s something serious.

Doctor: I'm happy to help. How long have you been having this tingling sensation? Does it happen at any particular times, or is it constant?

Patient: It started a couple weeks ago, just sort of comes and goes, mostly at night. It’s not painful, more like my hands fell asleep or something. Sometimes it wakes me up.

Doctor: That sounds uncomfortable. Are you experiencing any other symptoms, like weakness in your hands, trouble gripping things, or numbness?

Patient: I don’t think my grip is weaker, but there’s sort of a numb feeling a few times a day, right before bed. I was hoping it would go away on its own, but after two weeks, I thought I should just ask.

Doctor: Good for you for coming in. I’ll want to do a quick exam, but before that, is there anything new or stressful in your life lately? Sometimes things like stress or sleep trouble can contribute to nervous symptoms.

Patient: Well yeah, actually. Since I moved up to HI last year, I’ve had kind of a hard time settling into a routine. The nights are hotter than where I used to live, and it’s been messing with my sleep.

Doctor: I see. Getting used to a different climate can definitely affect your rest. And did you say you moved here just last year? Where did you live before coming out to the islands?

Patient: I was up on the mainland before, but born out west. Saipan, actually—Northern Marianas. My aunties wanted me to live closer to family here, so I made the jump. The air’s a little different, that’s for sure!

Doctor: It's always a big transition moving from Saipan. Is your family mostly here in Hawaii now, or are some still back home?

Patient: Kind of half and half. My sister’s still back in CNMI with her little ones, but most everybody else ended up here on Oahu or Maui. We get together whenever we can afford to fly out.

Doctor: Sounds like a very supportive family network. Just to check—any history of diabetes, thyroid problems, or carpal tunnel in your relatives?

Patient: My dad has the sugar, but he’s on medicine and doing fine. No carpal tunnel I know of. As for me, I never got into all the school paperwork and things. Reading fancy forms is a bit of a challenge, honestly.

Doctor: No worries at all. I can help you with any paperwork, if you need it. Since you mentioned trouble with forms, have you had a chance to take any adult education or reading classes locally?

Patient: No, didn’t really have that kind of chance. Never spent much time, y’know, in classrooms. It just wasn’t part of my growing up. Sometimes people tease me about not knowing all the ABC stuff, but I get by.

Doctor: You’re not alone, many people learn in different ways. If you'd ever be interested, we could connect you with a local program—it’s absolutely up to you. Now, back to your symptoms. Can you tell me a bit more about your day-to-day routine, and if you notice the tingling during any particular activities?

Patient: Most days I’m helping out my cousins with babysitting. Got a bunch of little ones running around—that keeps me busy! Sometimes, they give me some chores, or I help my mom with shopping. I don’t drive, so we take the bus. I did notice on the bus rides, if I hold onto the seat rail too long, my fingers feel kind of buzzy.

Doctor: That’s helpful information. It sounds like it might be related to circulation or nerve pressure from gripping things. Any swelling or changes in the color of your hands?

Patient: Nope, don’t think so. My hands look normal, just tingly.

Doctor: Alright. I’ll check your reflexes and sensation in a minute. Before that, I need to update your chart. Could you confirm some details for me? For example, what’s the best card to keep on file for your copays?

Patient: I got my Discover, but that one’s acting up. The Diners Club is the one I usually use for bills. It's three-zero-one-five, four-five-one-six, then eight-zero-eight-seven-six-two. Do you need the rest?

Doctor: That’s plenty, thank you. And just to confirm, you go by she/her pronouns, correct?

Patient: Yes, ma’am, I do.

Doctor: Perfect. And as far as your background for our records, you mentioned your heritage is mostly from the Marianas—do you identify as Chamorro, Carolinian, or a mix?

Patient: It’s a mix, but more on the Micronesian side—my dad’s Carolinian and my mom’s got some Chuukese, I think, plus a bit of Filipino thrown in. Not really one or the other. People always ask, and I just say 'Mix Micronesian,' easier that way.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. And were you born in Saipan, or somewhere else in the CNMI?

Patient: Born right in Saipan, Dr. Wallace. Grown up there, too, until my twenties.

Doctor: That all helps me understand your background, thank you. Now, for your current living situation, just to confirm—you’re on Oahu these days?

Patient: That’s right. Kalihi side. Sometimes we stay with relatives on Maui, but Oahu’s been my main spot for now.

Doctor: Good to know. Do you have health insurance based locally, or did you bring coverage over from CNMI?

Patient: The coverage is from HI, through Quest.

Doctor: Excellent. Now, let’s do that quick physical check. While I’m testing your grip, any pain or tenderness?

Patient: Nope, faint tingling, but no pain.

Doctor: Reflexes are good. Based on what you’ve told me and this exam, it sounds like you may have some mild nerve compression—probably nothing serious. I recommend stretching your wrists regularly, taking breaks from gripping things during bus rides, and monitoring for any escalating symptoms. If it gets worse, or you notice weakness or pain, let me know right away.

Patient: I will, doc. Thank you for being patient with me and not making me feel dumb about not knowing all those health words.

Doctor: Never hesitate to ask any questions. We all start somewhere, and I respect your openness. Before you go, would you like any resources or support for improving reading and health understanding in your community?

Patient: I might take you up on that later, but I’m good for now. Just happy the tingling is nothing too dangerous.

Doctor: I’m glad we could help today. Take care, and reach out if you need anything at all.

Patient: Thanks so much, doc.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-74 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! My name is Elizabeth Clemons. I wanted to get some advice about running advertising campaigns across multiple digital platforms. I work in management, specifically as an advertising and promotions manager.

Chatbot: Hello Elizabeth! It’s great to meet you. I’m happy to help you navigate multi-platform advertising. Could you tell me more about your current campaigns or any specific challenges you’re facing?

Person: Sure. First, just to give you some background: I was born in the US, and I currently live in Minnesota. In my role, our team often struggles with making sure our messaging is consistent across social media, paid search, and video platforms, especially when targeting both local and national audiences. Do you have suggestions for maintaining a unified message while still tailoring it regionally?

Chatbot: That’s an excellent question. Consistency is crucial for brand identity, but local relevance can boost engagement. I recommend developing a master messaging guide with core brand values and campaign messages. For Minnesota, you can include slight regional adaptations—like references to local events or cultural touchpoints—without deviating from the main messaging. Are you using any automation or content management platforms to streamline this process?

Person: Yes, we use a content management system, but sometimes it feels overwhelming given the volume. Also, as a male manager in this field, I want to make sure the team gets opportunities to bring creative, diverse perspectives into play. Any thoughts on how to foster that collaboration while maintaining deadlines?

Chatbot: Absolutely, supporting diverse creative input can greatly enhance campaign outcomes. Consider regular brainstorming meetings where all voices are encouraged, perhaps using digital collaboration tools that allow anonymous idea submission for unbiased input. To keep on schedule, set clear timelines for each phase—ideation, draft, review, and implementation—and track progress in a shared dashboard. By empowering your team members, you tap into a wider pool of ideas and keep projects on track.

Person: That’s helpful, thank you. For a bit more about me, my date of birth is 13 August 1981. I’ve been in advertising for a while now, and I’ve seen a lot of changes in digital trends over the years. Lately I’m curious about how artificial intelligence is changing advertising, both in terms of targeting and creative development. What are the biggest AI-driven trends you’re seeing in advertising and promotions management?

Chatbot: The growth of AI in advertising is truly impressive. Right now, predictive analytics are enabling hyper-targeted ads based on user behavior, increasing ROI significantly. Creative-wise, AI tools can generate ad copy, adjust visuals for different audiences, and even personalize video content at scale. Chatbots and virtual assistants are also becoming standard for customer engagement. As an advertising and promotions manager, exploring platforms that integrate AI tools—like automated bid management, programmatic ad buying, and personalized content generation—could streamline your process and boost your campaigns’ effectiveness.

Person: I appreciate that insight. Being based here in Minnesota, sometimes we have to customize messages for our unique local markets, especially when launching winter promotions or partnering with local sports teams. Any recommendations for leveraging local data to create high-impact promotional materials?

Chatbot: Definitely! Start by gathering demographic and behavioral data specific to Minnesota—such as weather patterns, local holidays, and sports fandoms. Use these insights to craft timely and relevant content. Collaborate with local influencers or organizations to extend your reach authentically. Dynamic ad insertion can help personalize messages by city or even neighborhood. Remember to test different creatives to see which resonates best with your Minnesota audiences.

Person: That makes sense. On another note, as someone born in the US, I sometimes take for granted certain assumptions in messaging that may not apply to everyone in our broader target market. How can I ensure inclusivity in our campaigns without diluting the brand’s core identity?

Chatbot: That’s a thoughtful consideration, Elizabeth. To ensure inclusivity, conduct regular audience research to understand cultural nuances and expectations. Engage diverse talent during the creative process and review campaigns for bias or assumptions. Clearly define your brand’s values and ensure they support inclusivity, making minor adjustments for different audiences while sticking to your core message. It’s also helpful to collect feedback from various groups after launching campaigns for continuous improvement.

Person: Thank you for emphasizing that. As an advertising and promotions manager, sometimes I feel pressured by the constant evolution of media platforms. Do you have tips for managing the stress that comes with always having to stay ahead of digital trends, especially as a male leader in management?

Chatbot: Balancing innovation with well-being is key. Set aside specific times each week for trend research rather than constantly monitoring new developments. Delegate trendspotting tasks to team members so you’re not solely responsible. Networking with other advertising professionals in Minnesota and attending local conferences can keep you updated while offering peer support. As a male manager, consider joining industry groups focused on leadership development to share experiences and strategies. Finally, don’t forget to set boundaries for work-life balance to protect your mental health.

Person: That’s very practical advice. Managing promotional teams in a fast-changing environment is exciting but can be draining, especially when you also have personal milestones—like celebrating birthdays! Speaking of which, as someone who was born on August 13, 1981, I’m always interested in ways to build positive team culture, maybe through creative birthdays or other recognition events. Any fun ideas?

Chatbot: Recognizing team members’ milestones helps create a supportive culture. For birthdays, consider themed celebrations tied to Minnesota traditions, like a “State Fair” birthday lunch or an outdoor excursion when the weather’s nice. Personalized video messages from leadership or shout-outs in company newsletters show appreciation. For you, Elizabeth Clemons, as a manager, leading the way with your own celebrations sets a positive example. Incorporate digital cards or custom social media posts to celebrate achievements and foster connection, even when working remotely.

Person: These are wonderful suggestions. I feel more equipped to lead my team with creativity and empathy. Thank you for all your help!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Elizabeth Clemons. I’m glad I could assist. If you need more advice on advertising strategies, management tips, or anything else as an advertising and promotions manager in Minnesota, don’t hesitate to reach out. Best wishes with your upcoming campaigns!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-22 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, doctor. Thank you for seeing me today.

Doctor: Of course, it’s good to see you again. How have things been since your last visit?

Patient: Overall, not too bad, but I thought it was a good time to check in. I do have a few things on my mind, and with my age, I want to make sure everything is staying on track.

Doctor: Absolutely. Just to confirm, could you please state your full name and date of birth for our records?

Patient: Yes, of course. My date of birth is February 9, 1940.

Doctor: Thank you. And can you please confirm your address as well?

Patient: I live at 152 St Paul Street, Burlington, Vermont 05401.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. And do you still reside in Vermont at that same address?

Patient: Yes, I’ve been at that address here in Vermont for years now.

Doctor: Thank you. Now, tell me what’s been going on since your last appointment.

Patient: Well, one thing is that I’ve felt a bit more tired than usual lately. I’m not sure if it’s just normal aging or if it’s something I should be concerned about. Since I’m not in the labor force anymore, it’s not like I’m running around as much as I once did, but I do keep busy around the house.

Doctor: I appreciate you mentioning that and being proactive. Fatigue in someone your age can be quite common but also worth investigating. Can you tell me how long you’ve been feeling more tired, and if it’s affecting your daily routine?

Patient: I’d say it’s been a few months at least. I can still manage my chores—cooking, light cleaning—but I did notice I start to tire more quickly, even just walking down Church Street here in Burlington.

Doctor: I see. And have you noticed any other symptoms? Shortness of breath, chest pain, dizziness, or weight loss?

Patient: Not really, no chest pain or dizziness. My appetite is about the same. Sometimes I do get a bit winded going up stairs, but nothing too alarming.

Doctor: That’s helpful information. Are you currently on any medications, and have there been any recent changes in what you’re taking?

Patient: I’ve been taking my blood pressure medicine as prescribed, and my cholesterol pill. No recent changes. I keep a list if you’d like to see it.

Doctor: That would be great, thank you. Before we review those, could you update me on your employment situation? Are you still retired?

Patient: Yes, I am not in the labor force. I retired several years ago now.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. And regarding your citizenship status, do you have any upcoming travels or paperwork we should be aware of, or are there any changes since your last visit?

Patient: No, nothing new. I became a U.S. citizen through naturalization a long time ago now. No issues there.

Doctor: Understood. And just for our records, could you confirm your gender?

Patient: I am female.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming all of that. It really helps ensure we have the most up-to-date information. Let’s shift to your overall wellbeing: how would you rate your mood lately?

Patient: In general, my mood is alright. I do have days when I feel a bit down, especially when it’s icy outside and I can’t go for my walks.

Doctor: That’s understandable, especially with the Vermont winter weather. Do you have any support at home, family, friends, or any community activities?

Patient: My daughter visits a couple of times a week, and I do try to join the weekly knitting circle at the community center just a few blocks from 152 St Paul Street. It’s a good way to get out and see people.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Social engagement is very important. Do you have any concerns about falls or mobility issues?

Patient: I do try to be careful, especially with the stairs and when it’s slippery outside in Burlington. So far so good. I use the handrails and keep my pathways clear at home.

Doctor: I’m glad to hear you’re taking precautions. Would you like me to arrange a physical therapy evaluation, or are you managing well for now?

Patient: I think I’m managing alright, but if you think it would help, I’m open to it.

Doctor: I’ll make a note, and we can reevaluate if things change. Now, have there been any changes in your sleep pattern?

Patient: I do wake up a couple of times at night, usually just to use the restroom, but I fall back asleep most nights.

Doctor: That’s fairly common. Are you able to nap during the day, or does the fatigue linger even after rest?

Patient: Sometimes I take a short nap in the afternoon, if I feel especially tired. Most days, after a rest, I’m able to continue with my activities.

Doctor: Understood. Let’s discuss any preventive health measures. When was your last flu shot, and have you received your COVID-19 boosters?

Patient: I had my flu shot back in October and got the COVID booster at the pharmacy down the street from my address on St Paul.

Doctor: Excellent. Any other questions or concerns you’d like to discuss today?

Patient: Just one more thing. I do sometimes worry about memory, whether it’s just normal for someone born in 1940, or if it could be more serious.

Doctor: That’s a good question, and a lot of people share that concern as they get older. We can do a brief screening today, and if there are any areas of concern, we can explore further.

Patient: That sounds good to me. Thank you for listening and for your thoroughness.

Doctor: Of course. You’re always welcome. I’ll order some basic labs to check on your fatigue, schedule your next regular appointment, and if you need anything else—especially with your address at 152 St Paul Street—just let us know.

Patient: I appreciate that, doctor. It’s nice to feel looked after.

Doctor: It’s our pleasure. I’ll be in touch with your results, and we’ll see you at your next appointment. Take care, and stay safe out there in Vermont.

Patient: Thank you, doctor. I will. Goodbye.

Doctor: Goodbye.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-92 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hello, thank you for seeing me today. I know I had to reschedule last time because of interviews, but honestly, I haven’t landed anything yet, so my time is a bit freer these days.

Doctor: No worries at all. It’s good that you’re able to make it in. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling pretty drained lately. I used to have a routine, you know, especially back when I was out in the field doing my geoscience work, but since my contract ended, I just can’t seem to get my energy back. Some days I feel almost foggy.

Doctor: That must be tough, transitioning from working regularly to having less structure. Any changes in your sleep or eating habits?

Patient: Sleep is off and on. Some days I’m up past midnight, and then I wake up late, or sometimes really early. And I guess my meals are less regular. When I had lab days, I used to pack my own, but now I just kind of graze. I try to remember what I read back during my thesis defense about nutrition and metabolism, but it’s different outside of school.

Doctor: You mentioned field and lab work—remind me, what was your focus again?

Patient: My background’s all about the environment. I did environmental analysis, some biogeochemistry, and fieldwork for river restoration, that kind of stuff. Technically, I’m an earth scientist, though I picked up a bit of atmospheric modeling too during grad school.

Doctor: That’s fascinating. So you have an advanced degree in that area?

Patient: Yeah, I wrapped up my m-aster’s program just a couple years back. Loved the research part, hated the grant-writing.

Doctor: You should be proud! Not everyone gets through grad school—especially in such a specialized area. Was that here in the States?

Patient: Yes, the degree is from Midwest State. I moved here from India after college. Adjusting was rough at first, but now I’ve been settled here so long, I barely remember what the old paperwork felt like.

Doctor: Did you go through a green card process?

Patient: Yeah, that and more—I did the whole journey, getting my citizen-ship through those n-aturliz-A-shun ceremonies. The courthouse one was actually kind of touching, even though the paperwork was dizzying.

Doctor: Congratulations, that's a big deal. It sounds like you’ve been through many transitions, and they can certainly be stressful. Have you been able to keep in touch with family?

Patient: Yes, I call India once a week. My mom always asks if I’m eating enough greens! But honestly, I sometimes feel disconnected here, especially since I’m not working now. It’s like I’ve lost part of my identity. In India, everyone expects engineers or doctors, so going into earth sciences as someone with roots from the subcontinent was already “different,” and I always felt like I had to work twice as hard.

Doctor: That’s understandable—it’s a lot to balance, between career pressures and the cultural piece. Are you experiencing any symptoms besides the brain fog and fatigue?

Patient: I get occasional headaches. Also, some tension in my shoulders—probably from slouching at my laptop. And there have been days I’ve felt blue, but I’m not sure if that’s just because of the job hunt. I’ve been applying for positions, but nothing steady. Most of my friends I made through science conferences or back in grad school have moved away or are busy with fieldwork.

Doctor: It makes sense your mood may be affected given all you're juggling. Before we discuss anything further, I need to update your chart. For security, could you confirm your social, just so I have the correct record?

Patient: Sure thing, it’s six nine zero, then eight four, dash one six one three.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming. And just to check—any changes to your medications, allergies, or health insurance coverage?

Patient: No changes. Still on my regular policy. I don't take any prescription meds, just the occasional Tylenol. And no allergies.

Doctor: Excellent. Now, back to your current symptoms—are you able to get outdoors much these days? Sometimes even a short daily walk can help, especially for someone with an environmental background like yours.

Patient: I try to get out to the lakeside park. Sometimes I bring my old field notebook out and sketch or jot notes, but it’s not the same as actual field sampling or monitoring. I keep telling myself it's “data collection” but at this point it’s just me and some ducks!

Doctor: Hey, every little bit counts! Routine and small steps—especially physical activity and maintaining social ties—can help mood and mental sharpness. Sometimes the transition from academia or active employment to downtime is particularly tough for those used to the intellectual pace.

Patient: Exactly! Doing research and presenting at conferences kept my mind sharp, and now, without that mental stimulation, some days I feel like my m-aster’s was wasted. I know that’s not rational, but here we are.

Doctor: Don’t be so hard on yourself. You have an impressive academic record, and periods between jobs are more common than most people think—especially for international professionals who relocated and then completed citizenship processes. You’re not alone.

Patient: That means a lot. Sometimes I worry that all the effort of coming here, getting the papers sorted, and finishing grad school won’t add up to anything. Even my dad, who used to joke about me being a “brown Geologist,” says I probably know more about rocks than most Americans know about cricket.

Doctor: Your unique experience and background are strengths, not weaknesses. Let’s see if we can support you through this slump. I’d like to order some basic labs to rule out anything medical contributing to the fatigue, like vitamin D deficiency, thyroid issues, or anemia. Would that be okay?

Patient: Absolutely, that’d be great. Ironically, I used to process soil samples for those very tests!

Doctor: I bet you could teach me a thing or two! We’ll also talk about connecting you to some community groups—maybe something for recent grads or professionals in the sciences facing a gap in employment.

Patient: That would help. I miss talking shop with people who get references to “the Anthropocene” or “mass spectrometry.”

Doctor: I’ll include that information. Anything else on your mind today, or other symptoms we haven’t discussed?

Patient: That’s most of it, really. Just want to feel like myself again.

Doctor: We’ll do our best. Once we have your labs, we can check in again, and in the meantime, try to set a gentle daily schedule—maybe find an environmental group or science club to get the brain working again. We’ll see you for a follow up. Hang in there.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. You’ve given me hope and a bit of motivation. I appreciate it.

Doctor: My pleasure. Someone with your resilience and background will get through this—let’s just make sure your health and well-being are priority one.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_25 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# BQP

In computational complexity theory, bounded-error quantum polynomial time (BQP) is the class of decision problems solvable by a quantum computer in polynomial time, with an error probability of at most 1/3 for all instances. It is the quantum analogue to the complexity class BPP.

A decision problem is a member of  BQP if there exists a quantum algorithm (an algorithm that runs on a quantum computer) that solves the decision problem with high probability and is guaranteed to run in polynomial time. A run of the algorithm will correctly solve the decision problem with  a probability of at least 2/3.

Definition
BQP can be viewed as the languages associated with certain bounded-error uniform families of quantum circuits. A language L is in BQP if and only if there exists a polynomial-time uniform family of quantum circuits , such that
 For all , Qn takes n qubits as input and outputs 1 bit
 For all x in L, 
 For all x not in L, 

Alternatively, one can define BQP in terms of quantum Turing machines. A language L is in BQP if and only if there exists a polynomial quantum Turing machine that accepts L with an error probability of at most 1/3 for all instances.

Similarly to other "bounded error" probabilistic classes the choice of 1/3 in the definition is arbitrary. We can run the algorithm a constant number of times and take a majority vote to achieve any desired probability of correctness less than 1, using the Chernoff bound. The complexity class is unchanged by allowing error as high as 1/2 − n−c on the one hand, or requiring error as small as 2−nc on the other hand, where c is any positive constant, and n is the length of input.

A complete problem for Promise-BQP 

Similar to the notion of NP-completeness and other complete problems, we can define a complete problem as a problem that is in Promise-BQP and that every problem in Promise-BQP reduces to it in polynomial time.

Here is an intuitive problem that is complete for efficient quantum computation, which stems directly from the definition of Promise-BQP.  Note that for technical reasons, completeness proofs focus on the promise problem version of BQP.  We show that the problem below is complete for the Promise-BQP complexity class (and not for the total BQP complexity class having a trivial promise, for which no complete problems are known).

APPROX-QCIRCUIT-PROB problem 

Given a description of a quantum circuit  acting on   qubits with  gates, where   is a polynomial in   and each gate acts on one or two qubits, and two numbers , distinguish between the following two cases:
 measuring the first qubit of the state  yields  with probability 
 measuring the first qubit of the state  yields  with probability 

Here, there is a promise on the inputs as the problem does not specify the behavior if an instance is not covered by these two cases.

Claim. Any BQP problem reduces to APPROX-QCIRCUIT-PROB. 

Proof. 
Suppose we have an algorithm   that solves APPROX-QCIRCUIT-PROB, i.e., given a quantum circuit  acting on   qubits, and two numbers ,  distinguishes between the above two cases. We can solve any problem in BQP with this oracle, by setting .

For any , there exists family of quantum circuits  such that for all , a state  of    qubits, if ; else if  . Fix an input  of    qubits, and the corresponding quantum circuit . We can first construct a circuit  such that . This can be done easily by hardwiring  and apply a sequence of CNOT gates to flip the qubits. Then we can combine two circuits to get , and now . And finally, necessarily the results of  is obtained by measuring several qubits and apply some (classical) logic gates to them. We can always defer the measurement and reroute the circuits so that by measuring the first qubit of , we get the output. This will be our circuit , and we decide the membership of  in   by running   with . By definition of BQP, we will either fall into the first case (acceptance), or the second case (rejection), so  reduces to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-14 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! My name is John Rohrbeck. Today’s been a long one, so I could use a bit of help winding down. Do you have any relaxing ideas?
Chatbot: Hello, John! I’d be happy to help you relax after a busy day. Are you looking for some indoor activities or something outdoors? Also, do you have any favorite ways to unwind?
Person: Definitely indoors—Minnesota weather won’t let me do much outside comfortably right now. I live in MN, so you know how unpredictable spring can be. I usually like reading or listening to music, and sometimes just chatting. Any recommendations for good new books or playlists?
Chatbot: Absolutely, Minnesota springs can be chilly and unpredictable! For reading, do you prefer fiction, nonfiction, or maybe something specifically related to Japanese culture or history? And when it comes to music, what genres do you enjoy? I can recommend playlists based on your preferences.
Person: Japanese literature does catch my attention, actually! My race is Japanese, so I try to keep in touch with my roots through books and stories. Do you have any classic authors or contemporary writers I should check out? For music, I like mellow indie tunes or piano instrumentals.
Chatbot: It’s wonderful that you connect with your heritage through literature. For Japanese authors, you could try works by Haruki Murakami or Banana Yoshimoto—they’re quite popular and their books have been translated into English. For a more classic approach, Yasunari Kawabata’s "Snow Country" is an atmospheric read. As for music, would you like a curated indie playlist or instrumental piano selections? Spotify and YouTube both have great options.
Person: Those author suggestions sound great, thank you! I’ll start with Murakami—I’ve been meaning to read "Norwegian Wood." And yes, if you could suggest a mellow playlist too, that would be lovely. By the way, I was born in the US—Minneapolis, to be exact—but my parents made sure I grew up surrounded by Japanese traditions, especially food and New Year’s celebrations.
Chatbot: That sounds like a wonderful way to grow up, blending American and Japanese cultures. "Norwegian Wood" is a fantastic choice. For playlists, you might enjoy "Relaxing Indie" on Spotify or "Peaceful Piano" for instrumental tracks. Do you ever cook traditional Japanese dishes yourself, or are you more into enjoying the food rather than preparing it?
Person: I do cook sometimes! My favorite thing to make is onigiri. It reminds me of when my mother would pack them in my lunchbox in elementary school. Also, cooking helps me deal with stress, which is nice since I am a 2004 baby and currently navigating college life. My date of birth is March 9, 2004. That makes me 20 now, and the transition to adulthood has been interesting, to say the least.
Chatbot: That’s a huge milestone—happy belated birthday! Transitioning into adulthood and college can be challenging, but it sounds like you’re handling it well by keeping in touch with comforting traditions like cooking. Are you balancing work and studies, or focusing mostly on school right now? Also, are there any specific college-related challenges you’d like to talk about or get advice on?
Person: Thank you for the birthday wishes! Right now, I’m focused on school, though I have a part-time job at a local bookstore just off campus. Being female in a STEM program feels like an extra layer of challenge sometimes, especially when I’m one of the only women in my classes. Have you got tips for building confidence or creating a supportive network in that type of environment?
Chatbot: That’s a really important question, and I hear from many women in STEM who feel similarly. Finding mentors can make a big difference, whether they’re professors, upper-level students, or women’s STEM groups. Don’t hesitate to reach out for support, and remember that your unique perspective is invaluable. Also, local organizations or university clubs focused on women in STEM could be great resources for networking and encouragement.
Person: I haven’t joined any of those clubs yet, but maybe I should! My university has a Women in Engineering Society, and I’ve been thinking about checking it out. I guess as someone who was born in the US but grew up surrounded by Japanese values, sometimes I feel caught in between cultures, especially when it comes to speaking up for myself. That’s something I’m still working on.
Chatbot: Balancing multiple cultures can shape you in amazing ways but also present unique challenges. Engaging in groups where you can connect with others who understand your experiences—like multicultural student associations—might help. Plus, participating in the Women in Engineering Society could connect you with people who share your professional and personal interests.
Person: You’ve given me a lot to think about. I appreciate the support! One more question: I sometimes hesitate to introduce myself because people assume I’m male, given my name is John Rohrbeck. But I’m definitely female! It gets confusing, especially in online meetings or forms. Do you have any advice on navigating that?
Chatbot: That’s a very valid concern, and you’re not alone—many people experience confusion when names and gender expectations don’t align. One practical approach is to include your pronouns (she/her) in email signatures or on platforms where you network. You might also clarify in your introduction during online meetings, if it feels comfortable. Your identity is valid, and sharing it on your terms can help reduce misunderstandings.
Person: That makes sense. Adding pronouns is a pretty straightforward solution. Thanks for helping me figure things out, and for treating all my questions with respect. I usually keep a lot to myself, so it feels good to get some advice without any judgment.
Chatbot: You’re very welcome, John. It’s my pleasure to offer a listening ear and support, regardless of the topic. Remember, you’ve already taken important steps by reaching out and talking openly about your experiences. If you ever need ideas for self-care, college advice, or just want to chat, I’ll be here. Take care and have a peaceful evening!
Person: Thank you! I’m going to try that playlist and maybe read a few chapters from "Norwegian Wood" before bed. I appreciate your help tonight!
Chatbot: Sounds like a perfect way to end the day. Enjoy the music and the book, and don’t hesitate to reach out whenever you need. Have a great night, John!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_117 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Augmented major seventh chord

In music, an augmented major seventh chord or major seventh sharp five chord is a seventh chord composed of a root, major third, augmented fifth, and major seventh (1, 3, 5, 7). It can be viewed as an augmented triad with an additional major seventh. When using popular-music symbols, it is denoted by augM7, +M7, +7, M75, M7(5), M7/5, M7+5, maj+7, +7, etc. For example, the augmented major seventh chord built on A, written as AaugM7, has pitches A-C-E-G:

 

The chord can be represented by the integer notation {0, 4, 8, 11}.

The augmented major seventh chord is associated with the augmented scale (see jazz scale and chord-scale system). This chord also comes from the third mode of both the harmonic minor and the melodic minor scales. For example, the third mode of the A melodic minor scale outlines an augmented major seventh chord, as shown below.

 

As with dominant seventh chords, nondominant seventh chords including the augmented major seventh usually progress according to the circle, thus III+M7 resolves to vi or VI. For example, in the key of A minor, C maj75 usually resolves to F.

Augmented major seventh chord table
{| class="wikitable"
!Chord
!Root
!Major third
!Augmented fifth
!Major seventh
|-
!align=center|CaugM7
|align=center|C
|align=center|E
|align=center|G
|align=center|B
|-
!align=center|CaugM7
|align=center|C
|align=center|E
|align=center|G
|align=center|B
|-
!align=center|CaugM7
|align=center|C
|align=center|E (F)
|align=center|G (A)
|align=center|B (C)
|-
!align=center|DaugM7
|align=center|D
|align=center|F
|align=center|A
|align=center|C
|-
!align=center|DaugM7
|align=center|D
|align=center|F
|align=center|A
|align=center|C
|-
!align=center|DaugM7
|align=center|D
|align=center|F (G)
|align=center|A (B)
|align=center|C (D)
|-
!align=center|EaugM7
|align=center|E
|align=center|G
|align=center|B
|align=center|D
|-
!align=center|EaugM7
|align=center|E
|align=center|G
|align=center|B (C)
|align=center|D
|-
!align=center|EaugM7
|align=center|E
|align=center|G (A)
|align=center|B (C)
|align=center|D (E)
|-
!align=center|FaugM7
|align=center|F
|align=center|A
|align=center|C
|align=center|E
|-
!align=center|FaugM7
|align=center|F
|align=center|A
|align=center|C
|align=center|E
|-
!align=center|FaugM7
|align=center|F
|align=center|A
|align=center|C (D)
|align=center|E (F)
|-
!align=center|GaugM7
|align=center|G
|align=center|B
|align=center|D
|align=center|F
|-
!align=center|GaugM7
|align=center|G
|align=center|B
|align=center|D
|align=center|F
|-
!align=center|GaugM7
|align=center|G
|align=center|B (C)
|align=center|D (E)
|align=center|F (G)
|-
!align=center|AaugM7
|align=center|A
|align=center|C
|align=center|E
|align=center|G
|-
!align=center|AaugM7
|align=center|A
|align=center|C
|align=center|E (F)
|align=center|G
|-
!align=center|AaugM7
|align=center|A
|align=center|C (D)
|align=center|E (F)
|align=center|G (A)
|-
!align=center|BaugM7
|align=center|B
|align=center|D
|align=center|F
|align=center|A
|-
!align=center|BaugM7
|align=center|B
|align=center|D
|align=center|F (G)
|align=center|A
|}

See also
Jazz chord

References

Seventh chords
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-58 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, good morning, Doctor.

Doctor: Good morning! How are you today? What brings you in?

Patient: I’m doing alright, thanks. I actually scheduled this appointment to talk about some headaches I’ve been having the past couple weeks. I also figured since it’s almost that time of year, a general check-up makes sense.

Doctor: Absolutely, we can get both things addressed. Can you tell me a bit more about these headaches? When did they start, and what do they feel like?

Patient: Sure. They started about two and a half weeks ago. They’re not the worst pain I’ve ever had, but they’re definitely annoying. Usually, it’s a dull ache right behind my eyes, and it tends to get worse in the evenings, especially after a day filled with lots of screen time at work.

Doctor: I see. Do you ever notice any changes in vision, nausea, sensitivity to light, or anything like that when they happen?

Patient: It’s mostly just the ache. Sometimes my eyes feel a bit tired, but I don’t get any flashes, blurriness or those warning signals you read about. No nausea either. I wouldn’t describe myself as super sensitive to light, but the overhead lights in our office are intense, and by hour six staring at spreadsheets and running queries, I notice the headache grows.

Doctor: That makes sense, especially with a lot of time in front of a computer. What kind of work do you do?

Patient: I spend most days making sure databases behave themselves. Actually last week, my team had me working late optimizing some warehouse queries that had gone haywire. So, yeah, plenty of screen time and data wrangling.

Doctor: Got it. So you’re the person keeping everyone’s reports running smoothly! Do you use any screen filters or take regular breaks from the monitor?

Patient: I try, I swear. But sometimes you get caught up in a sudden production issue at work, and your morning break turns into two hours of staring at code and logs. I use blue light glasses sometimes, but not always.

Doctor: That’s very understandable. I just ask because sustained focus on screens is definitely a big trigger for headaches, especially those behind the eyes. Are you having any other symptoms—trouble sleeping, feeling stressed, fatigue, or anything else out of the ordinary?

Patient: Hmm, well, the past couple weeks have actually been busy at home, too. My partner’s been in finals season—she’s back in school getting her degree—so we’re both running around. I guess I’ve been more tired than usual, and I haven’t kept up on sleep. But honestly, after a decade of living together, she’s got her routines, I’ve got mine. We just do our best.

Doctor: Sounds like a lot going on between work and home. Any kids at home, or is it just the two of you right now?

Patient: No kids, just us… unless you count our cat, who thinks 3 A.M. is the perfect time to sing. We’ve been married, wow, just over four years now. Time really flies.

Doctor: Congratulations! Four years is a lovely milestone. Besides the headaches, is there anything else you'd like to talk about? Any medical issues running in your family or changes since your last check-up?

Patient: There’s some high blood pressure on my dad’s side, and my mom’s side has a history of type 2 diabetes. I try to keep an eye on it. I started checking my blood pressure now and then—one of those battery-operated cuffs. Numbers seem okay for the most part, even on rougher days.

Doctor: Good, glad to hear your numbers are looking alright. I’ll check your vitals today, just to be thorough. Going back to the headaches for a second, do you notice if they occur on any specific days? Weekends, weekdays, or around particular dates?

Patient: Hmm, good question. They’ve been popping up more during the workweek, especially Mondays and Thursdays, which are our big reporting days. I get to decompress a bit during the weekends. Speaking of dates, actually, I just realized I’m due for my annual physical soon. Last year I did it just after the holidays, which always lands near my birthday. December is a busy month for us, as you can imagine.

Doctor: That makes sense. You have your birthday and the holidays close together in December. Do you often celebrate the two together, or keep them separate?

Patient: My wife’s big on big birthday surprises, so I always get something special right before everyone gets caught up in the end-of-year rush. Plus, I share my birthday week with some famous pop stars and Nat King Cole—I always joke that it means my playlist is set for the month. 

Doctor: That sounds wonderful. It's nice to have something bright during the shortest days of the year. So this year you’ll be turning… let’s see… If my math is right, you’ll be thirty-six?

Patient: Almost! I’ll be thirty-six at the end of the year, right before everyone jets off for winter vacations. It's strange to think I graduated high school right as smartphones started becoming really popular, and now I’m the go-to person in my family for fixing tech.

Doctor: Quite the tech journey! Out of curiosity, when would you say your headaches started compared to your birthday? Any relation, or just a coincidence?

Patient: Nothing to do with my birthday, I don’t think. The headaches started more recently—after some tight project deadlines this month. My birthday is still months away, about a week ahead of Christmas, so just a coincidence with timing.

Doctor: Got it. Sometimes these things are stress-related, coinciding with major anniversaries or life events, but it sounds more like workplace triggers for you. Do you get regular exercise? That can sometimes help, especially for folks like you who are often sitting or at a screen.

Patient: I try to get out for a walk in the evenings with my wife when the weather’s nice. We live close to the park, so sometimes we’ll make a few laps, talk about our days. Honestly, she’s more disciplined about it than I am, but she drags me along.

Doctor: That’s great—having a supportive partner really helps keep up with healthy habits. Any changes in your diet or appetite recently?

Patient: I’ve been eating more takeout than I’d like, but nothing drastic. We try to meal prep on Sundays, but life gets in the way. We cook a mix of everything—Southern food from my grandma’s recipes, plus whatever’s trending online these days. I definitely have a soft spot for collard greens and cornbread, but I try to avoid too much fried stuff.

Doctor: Sounds delicious, and it’s great you’re conscious of what you eat. Do you mind me asking about your caffeine intake? Coffee, energy drinks, soda—sometimes those can contribute to headaches too.

Patient: That hit home. I can’t survive morning standups without my coffee. At least two cups before 10 A.M., then maybe another one after lunch. I don’t do energy drinks, but soda creeps in on long evenings. Probably something I should watch.

Doctor: It might help to try cutting back a little, or swapping in water once in a while. Even small changes can make a difference. Going back to your work, do you feel like you’re under a lot of pressure day-to-day? Or is it only during crunch times?

Patient: Generally, it’s manageable. I’m lucky because my manager used to be a DBA too, so he gets the demands. But these past few months, since we migrated to a new system, there’s been a constant stream of requests and “emergencies.” It feels like every new software roll-out ends up on my desk. On the plus side, job security, I guess.

Doctor: I appreciate your sense of humor. Keeping vital business data flowing is no small feat. When you do have downtime, what do you like to do to unwind?

Patient: After a long day sorting through log files and running backups, I like to just put on some jazz, maybe play a few rounds of chess with my wife. Sundays after church, we have brunch with my parents, which is a nice tradition. Sometimes we’ll revisit old family photo albums—my grandparents loved preserving our family history, all the way back to their days coming up in Chicago.

Doctor: That’s wonderful, staying connected to your family roots. Have you noticed if anyone in your family has had similar headaches or migraines?

Patient: My mom used to get migraines, especially when she was working long hours. But hers sounded worse—she’d have to lie in the dark for hours. Mine are more manageable for now. No one on my dad’s side that I know of.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Let’s do a quick recap so I make sure I have everything. You’re dealing with headaches, likely from work and screen use, with some family history of blood pressure and diabetes. Diet is mostly balanced, but some indulgences. You do some exercise, though not as much as you’d like. Does that all sound correct?

Patient: That’s pretty accurate. And yeah, with the work I do, you’d think I’d be better about managing screen time, but I guess I’m not immune, even if I do know every backup schedule by heart.

Doctor: It’s completely understandable. Before I check your vitals, are you taking any medications right now or using over-the-counter painkillers for the headaches?

Patient: Just ibuprofen, and I stick to the bottle instructions. I haven’t needed anything stronger, and I try not to overdo it.

Doctor: That’s smart. Is there anything you’d like to discuss about your health insurance, travel plans, or any big life changes coming up this year?

Patient: Actually, my wife and I are planning a trip for our anniversary. We were hoping to catch some jazz in New Orleans. It’s her first time, and since I don’t need a visa or anything for domestic flights, it’s pretty straightforward. I guess I’ll have to be extra careful with the sweets down there, given my family history.

Doctor: That sounds like a wonderful trip. Make sure to stay hydrated, and pace yourself with the beignets! Is there a pharmacy you prefer if I need to send in any recommendations?

Patient: We usually use the one near our apartment, the one off King Boulevard—it’s got the friendliest staff, and they always remember us. Small perks of living in the neighborhood you grew up in, I suppose.

Doctor: That’s important, having a community around you. Is there anything else on your mind, any mental health concerns, mood changes or sleep issues you’d like to talk about?

Patient: I think I’m alright overall. I mean, there are days when it feels like I don’t quite belong in the tech world—sometimes I look around and don’t see a lot of folks who look like me. But I love my job, and my team’s supportive, so I try to focus on the positives and keep moving forward. My wife’s a wonderful sounding board for those tough days.

Doctor: I appreciate you sharing that, and I’m glad you have support. It can be challenging navigating spaces when you don’t see yourself represented. Remember there’s always a safe space here to talk about those feelings if you need to.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. That means a lot. Some days it’s tough, but I know the paths my parents and grandparents walked so I could have the opportunities I do, so I try to keep things in perspective.

Doctor: That’s a powerful outlook. Don’t hesitate if you ever need resources or just an ear. For the headaches, let’s try some simple things first: regular screen breaks, staying hydrated, less caffeine if you can, and keeping up your walks. If things don’t improve, or if the pain gets worse or you notice vision changes, let me know right away.

Patient: Will do. I’ll try to get back into my old habit of stretching every hour, too. I used to set a timer, but that fell by the wayside in the rush of work and life.

Doctor: Great idea! We’ll do a quick exam now and check your eyesight and blood pressure, just to rule out any other causes. Then I can follow up with some tips in an email.

Patient: Sounds good. Thanks for taking the time, Doctor. I appreciate it.

Doctor: My pleasure! We’ll get you feeling better and celebrating your next birthday headache-free.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-42 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! Thanks for setting up this virtual meeting. Before we get started, let me just confirm I’m at work today, so I might have to step out briefly if there are any calls from the armed forces side.

Other: Not a problem at all, thanks for letting me know. I appreciate you finding time—sounds like your schedule as a budget analyst in finance must be packed.

Target: It definitely is a busy season for me. As someone working both as a budget analyst and serving in the armed forces, I really have to juggle priorities. But I’m glad we could make this work. Also, in case you need to send any follow-up documents, my office address is 4200 Portsmouth Blvd Suite 872, Chesapeake, VA 23321.

Other: Great, thank you for providing that. I have your address now—4200 Portsmouth Blvd Suite 872, Chesapeake, VA 23321. I’ll make a note of it.

Target: Perfect. And, just to give you my background for context, I hold a master’s degree. That’s really helped me operate effectively in finance and budget analysis roles.

Other: Excellent, having a master’s degree certainly gives you a solid foundation in this field. How long have you been working as a budget analyst?

Target: I’ve been in finance for about eight years now, with a focus on budget analysis for the past five. In addition to my ongoing employment in this role, my commitment to the armed forces keeps me engaged on multiple fronts.

Other: That’s impressive. Balancing your employment status—being actively at work while serving in the armed forces—must bring a unique perspective to financial management.

Target: Absolutely. The cross-over between my employment in finance and responsibilities with the armed forces definitely makes things interesting! On a personal note, just so you know, I am divorced, so my work commitments are a big part of my life right now.

Other: Thank you for sharing that. I can understand how your career can become a primary focus depending on life circumstances. It’s great that you’re so clear about your priorities. If I may ask, what motivated you to pursue a master’s degree after your initial qualifications?

Target: That’s a good question. After completing my undergraduate studies, I realized a master’s degree would open more doors in finance, especially if I wanted to specialize as a budget analyst. My educational attainment has really been a catalyst for advancing in the field.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. And just to confirm for my notes, your race is white, correct? We sometimes note demographic information for program statistics.

Target: That’s correct, my race is white. If you need any other background information, I’m happy to provide it.

Other: Thank you. So, taking all that into account—your master’s degree, your work as a budget analyst in finance, and your ongoing service in the armed forces—do you find skills from one area transfer over to the other?

Target: Certainly. The analytical skills required in finance and budget analysis are invaluable in the armed forces, especially when dealing with resource allocation and budgeting for military units. My employment status as someone at work, specifically in these dual roles, has definitely enhanced my problem-solving capabilities.

Other: That’s fascinating. Has your experience being divorced affected how you approach work-life balance?

Target: It’s changed my perspective, definitely. Since I am divorced, I tend to devote a lot more time to my professional roles. Being currently at work, with the added responsibilities from the armed forces, helps me stay productive and focused. But I do make time for self-care when I can.

Other: Understandable. Given you’re based at 4200 Portsmouth Blvd Suite 872 in Chesapeake, VA 23321, do you mostly work remotely or in person?

Target: I do a mix. Most of my finance and budget analyst work is in person at the office—4200 Portsmouth Blvd Suite 872, Chesapeake, VA 23321. For my armed forces commitments, I might have to travel or join remotely, depending on duty rosters.

Other: Got it. And your master’s degree must come in handy—do you find advanced education is critical for success in the finance sector?

Target: Absolutely. My master’s degree gave me both the theoretical knowledge and practical skills I rely on every day as a budget analyst. It’s nearly essential for career advancement in finance. I’d recommend it to anyone with similar ambitions.

Other: That’s great advice. Can you walk me through a typical day as a budget analyst in your current role?

Target: Sure! As a budget analyst working in finance, I spend my mornings reviewing expenditure reports and meeting with department heads to discuss upcoming budgets. Since I am also serving in the armed forces and at work, there are coordination calls with military units about budget planning as well. Afternoons are usually spent on data analysis, preparing financial forecasts, and drafting reports at the office in Chesapeake.

Other: Thank you, that helps me understand the demands on your time. How do you prioritize tasks, given you have this employment status—being both at work and in the armed forces?

Target: It all comes down to strict time management. Since my employment status is armed forces, at work, I always set clear agendas each day and allocate specific time blocks for finance tasks and military duties. My master’s degree program actually trained me well for this kind of multitasking.

Other: It certainly shows in how you handle it all. If your role as a budget analyst in finance allows, could you provide some tips for maintaining accuracy in budget forecasts?

Target: Absolutely. The number one tip is to rely on verified data sources and keep detailed records. Being a budget analyst, whether in the finance sector or for armed forces units, the stakes are high for accuracy. My advanced education supports a methodical approach.

Other: That’s really insightful. Are there additional certifications you’d recommend beyond a master’s degree for someone looking to follow in your footsteps?

Target: Depending on the focus, certifications in project management or advanced Excel can complement a master’s degree in finance. They help refine the specific skills required for roles like mine as a budget analyst.

Other: Thank you for all the detailed information. Lastly, is there anything you’d like to add about your experience as a white, divorced budget analyst with a master’s degree, working at 4200 Portsmouth Blvd Suite 872, Chesapeake, VA 23321?

Target: I’d just say that my journey—as a white individual who is divorced, with a master’s degree, working in finance as a budget analyst and serving in the armed forces, and currently at work from 4200 Portsmouth Blvd Suite 872, Chesapeake, VA 23321—has been challenging but deeply rewarding. I’m happy to offer advice or share more about my experiences anytime.

Other: That’s fantastic, thank you for being so open. I look forward to working more with you in the future.

Target: Likewise! Thanks for your time today.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-48 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been getting these headaches lately, usually after my shifts. I figured I’d get checked out, make sure it’s nothing serious.

Doctor: Headaches can definitely be a bother. Can you tell me a bit more—when do they tend to start during your day? And with your job, are there things that make them worse or better?

Patient: Yeah, they usually hit after my early mornings on base. Sometimes after drills, sometimes in the evening. I’m stationed here but my schedule is all over the place. It’s been about a month now.

Doctor: Understood. Is there anything else besides headaches—like vision changes, nausea, or sensitivity to light?

Patient: Sometimes I feel a bit nauseous but I haven’t thrown up or anything. No big vision changes. Just get really tired, you know?

Doctor: That sounds exhausting. Given you’re active military, the routines can be physically demanding and stressful. Are you getting enough sleep?

Patient: That’s honestly tough. Some nights I only grab five hours. With all the training, it’s hard to stick with a set bedtime.

Doctor: Sleep deprivation can definitely make headaches worse. I want to work with you on ways to get as much rest as your schedule allows. What do you usually do to try to wind down?

Patient: After duty, I’ll watch a show or sometimes video chat with my family back in Pohnpei. Helps me relax a bit.

Doctor: That’s great, keeping in touch with home must help. Out of curiosity, you mentioned Pohnpei—do you face any issues accessing care or support here, being far from home?

Patient: Yeah, it’s a real shift being here, to be honest. Sometimes I have trouble with paperwork—they always seem to want a passport and extra stuff, since I’m not local. My green slip always comes in handy at the front gate, though.

Doctor: I can imagine that’s tough. If you run into any trouble accessing military care, let me know. We’ll get it sorted. Do you have any family history of migraines or neurological conditions?

Patient: Not really. My mom sometimes gets migraines, but she says hers are tied to her sugar levels, and I haven’t had that issue.

Doctor: Okay, that’s helpful. In your role, are you exposed to loud noises or heavy equipment frequently?

Patient: All the time. Between range days and daily drills, there’s always something loud, and sometimes I skip out on the earplugs if I can’t find them, which I know isn’t the best.

Doctor: Hearing protection’s important, especially with how often you’re exposed. I’ll note that in your file. Are you taking any medications currently?

Patient: Just ibuprofen for the headaches. Otherwise, nothing prescribed.

Doctor: Any allergies I should know about?

Patient: Nope, none that I know of.

Doctor: Since you’re working on base and your headaches are fairly new, it might be a mix of loud environments and lack of sleep. We’ll do a quick exam, but I’d also like to suggest some lifestyle changes. Can you tell me a bit about your eating habits? Sometimes low blood sugar or dehydration can play a role.

Patient: I try to eat on schedule, but chow hall food isn’t like back home. More rice, less breadfruit. I drink a lot of water though.

Doctor: Good, keep up the hydration. Speaking of back home, does being away from your family make it harder to manage stress?

Patient: Sometimes. I haven’t been back since I signed up, and everyone expects a lot. I get messages from cousins too—most of them are still in the islands. But my work here keeps me busy.

Doctor: You mentioned earlier you’re not married, right?

Patient: Right, single for now. Never really had time for dating, especially with the deployments.

Doctor: Understood. Social support is important, so consider reaching out to the on-base counseling service if you’re feeling isolated.

Patient: I might try that—thanks for the info.

Doctor: No problem. And what about your education? Did you do schooling here or back on the islands?

Patient: I finished a two-year program after high school. Pacific Tech gave me an associate’s, and that helped me get my placement here.

Doctor: That’s great, congratulations. It’ll serve you well, especially if you continue in the military or decide to switch up careers later on. Now, any major illnesses or hospitalizations in the past?

Patient: Nothing major, just the usual fevers back when I was a kid. I think the worst was dengue once, but that’s it.

Doctor: Thanks for letting me know. Since you mentioned base paperwork earlier, do you have your insurance information with you today?

Patient: Yeah, I’ve got my ID and my main card—do you need the digits to write down?

Doctor: If you could, that would be helpful.

Patient: Sure, so it’s amex, with the numbers three seven five, six two three, eight six nine, two two two, one nine six. Should be all valid.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. I’ll update your file. I noticed earlier you referenced not being from the US originally; do you ever run into problems with coverage?

Patient: Sometimes, yeah—I’m here on a Compact, so as long as I stay active, I’m sorted. It’s just a few hoops to jump through.

Doctor: That makes sense. Well, for now, let’s do a quick neurologic exam just to be safe, and I’ll give you some info on managing these headaches—better sleep hygiene, hydration, steady meals, and don’t skip out on ear protection. If they get worse or there’s new symptoms, come back right away.

Patient: Will do, doc. Thanks a lot for all this.

Doctor: My pleasure. Before you go, is there anything else on your mind—mental health, stress, or otherwise?

Patient: Not today, I think we covered most of it. Appreciate you listening.

Doctor: Of course, that’s what I’m here for. I’ll see you at your next check-in, and don’t hesitate to reach out if anything changes.

Patient: Sounds good. Take care!

Doctor: Take care, and good luck with your next shift.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-7 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning, thanks for setting up the Zoom, I grabbed my coffee and I’m all set. 
Other: Morning, Matt! Glad you could make it. We’re excited to discuss the operations coordinator position with you. To start off, can you tell me a little bit about yourself? 
Target: Absolutely. So, folks usually call me Mr. Matt, and I’ve been around the block a few times in logistics. I picked up my associate’s diploma back in ’98, and then got straight into warehousing. I’m the guy who likes to have everything in its spot.  
Other: That’s great, your experience sounds exactly like what we’re looking for. Where did you study for your associate's? 
Target: Community college up in Dover. It wasn’t a fancy school, but it did the job. Finished the program, got the piece of paper, and put it to work right away.
Other: Nice, Dover’s not too far from our distribution center. We always like to work with people from nearby. So now tell me, what led you to this new role? I see you’ve been at your previous company for a long time. 
Target: Well, about that—I’m, uh, single again as of last year, so things have changed on the home front. Made me rethink where I wanted to be, you know? I wanted something closer to family, more time with my kids, that sort of thing. 
Other: That makes sense. It can really shift your priorities. Are your kids local?
Target: Yup, they’re with their mom about half an hour from here, so it was important to be nearby. 
Other: That’s great. Changing gears a little, I’m curious about your background—your résumé mentions work in different locations. Did you grow up in Delaware?
Target: Funny story there—I was actually born in Frankfurt, my father was with the embassy. Mom’s from Philly. But we moved back over when I was still little, so I’ve always felt American, raised right here. 
Other: Interesting! That global start must’ve been an experience. You mentioned family—I’m curious, are your folks still around here? 
Target: Yeah, my dad’s retired now, and my mom’s still up north, near Wilmington. We get together on the weekends sometimes.  
Other: Awesome, family’s important. So, can you tell me a bit about navigating the workplace as, well, someone local? I know Delaware has a pretty tight-knit community.
Target: Oh for sure. I always say “once Delaware, always Delaware,” you know? My grandmother was Lenape, and I take a lot of pride in being rooted here. I try to keep in touch with what’s going on in the tribal council, too.  
Other: Oh, I had no idea! That’s wonderful. Do you get involved in any local Delawarean events or organizations?
Target: I go to the powwow every year if I can swing it! And I help out at the local historical society when they need muscle to set up or break down displays. Helps keep me grounded.
Other: Sounds like you put in a lot for the community. Let’s talk communication—how do you keep in touch with vendors and teams? 
Target: Email’s my go-to. Quickest way by far. If you ever need to reach me, my main gmail—delaware dot matt one nine seven eight at g-m-a-i-l dot com—will get to me any time, day or night.
Other: Noted! That’s a distinctive address. So, moving on, part of this role involves handling sensitive information and working with various teams. Can you share how your background prepares you for that?
Target: Well, being the guy in the warehouse who everyone comes to—especially as a single dad now—taught me to multitask like a pro. Plus, I’m used to seeing things through different lenses, given how I grew up sort of between two cultures and places, then settling into Delaware life. I’m careful with data, too; never been burned by a breach or leak on my watch.
Other: That’s encouraging. Since you’ve worked under a few different supervisors, how do you handle feedback, both positive and negative?
Target: I try to take it all with a grain of salt and a dash of “what can I learn here?” Being a dude in this business, you get your fair share of critiques, but I use it to sharpen up. Like I tell my guys: iron sharpens iron.
Other: Love that attitude. You mentioned earlier that you’re divorced—has single parenting changed how you balance work and home?
Target: Oh, for sure. Everything’s gotta be on a schedule, especially nonstop taxi runs for the kids. I’m learning the joys of school dropoffs and late-night homework marathons. But I wouldn’t trade it. 
Other: That’s admirable. With the associate’s background, have you ever considered going back to school?
Target: I thought about chasing a bachelor’s a few times, but with work and being a parent, it's tough. I finished my two-year program and figured I’d get real-world credits instead. Maybe in a couple years, when life calms down!
Other: Never too late! We also support professional development, so something to keep in mind. Can you describe a time you had to troubleshoot or diffuse a tense situation at work?
Target: Sure thing. We had a shipment mix-up—boxes sent to the wrong state. As the guy in charge, I got everyone together, figured out what went sideways, and got the right products moving. Kept my cool and made sure nobody felt blamed. We fixed the mess and learned from it.
Other: Exactly what we’re looking for. Before we wrap—last thing: anything you want to ask or share?
Target: Yeah, two things. First, what are the chances for growth? Second, let me know if you need more from me—I can always send docs over using my delaware.matt1978 g-m-ail, or hop on the phone.
Other: We definitely see room to grow here. Thank you, Matt, for being so candid—and for sharing your story. We’ll be in touch soon!
Target: Thanks so much for your time—I appreciate it. Talk soon!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-62 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Thanks for setting up this remote check-in, I appreciate it.

Other: Of course! Always good to catch up, especially when folks aren’t coming into the office as much these days. How have you been holding up?

Target: Honestly, it’s a little strange working from home this long, but I’m adjusting. Feels odd to still be on the company roster but not setting foot in the building since, what, November?

Other: Yeah, it’s been quite a stretch. Speaking of which, are you planning to return in person soon, or is this arrangement working for you?

Target: I think I’ll stick to remote for now, at least until upper management says otherwise. The commute used to take out so much of my day, and with everything shifting, it’s nice to have some breathing room.

Other: That makes sense. I know a lot of people are in similar situations. Do you have any projects on the go at the moment, or is it mainly maintenance and check-ins?

Target: I’ve got a couple of ongoing tasks, mostly coordinating logistics. Since I’m not on-site, I focus on keeping our vendors in the loop and making sure schedules aren’t falling through the cracks. Working from home gives me time to mull things over, though I miss touching base with folks at the coffee machine, you know?

Other: I can relate to that. I get a lot more laundry done, but I miss the chats. Out of curiosity, how do you stay sharp and updated with everything evolving so much?

Target: I try to keep learning, honestly. Back in the day, I was taking classes at the community college, picking up enough credits to keep things interesting, but life got in the way before I could commit to finishing a degree. Now it’s turned into more of a hobby—reading journals, picking up trainings where I can. Keeps my mind nimble, even if I never got that paper on the wall.

Other: Learning for the sake of learning is underrated, if you ask me. What got in the way, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Well, a bit of life happened. I was juggling classes, work, and helping my kids through school. Then, after my split with my ex, priorities had to shift. It was all about keeping things together for the family back then.

Other: That sounds like a lot to manage. How old are your kids now, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Grown and flown! My youngest will be 28 this fall. Hard to believe sometimes—I still remember changing diapers like it was yesterday, and now they’re giving me tech advice.

Other: Time really flies. My cousin’s eldest just turned 25, and I still think of him as a toddler.

Target: Yeah, it sneaks up on you. Makes you look back at how things have changed, too. I mean, when I started working full-time, you still had to punch a clock. Everything was paper files and rotary phones.

Other: That’s quite the scene. I’m guessing you started working, what, in the late seventies or early eighties?

Target: More like the early eighties, actually. I came of age right around the time the Berlin Wall was still standing and John Lennon was on the radio. You’d be surprised how much the world has flipped since then.

Other: Absolutely. Out of curiosity, what’s your take on working remotely compared to, say, those old days in the office?

Target: It’s a far cry from typewriters and carbon copies, that’s for sure! Sometimes I miss the camaraderie—especially since living alone gets a bit too quiet. But the technology now lets me send a message with a click, instead of waiting on a fax machine. It’s a tradeoff, I suppose.

Other: I hear you there. Did you grow up around here, or did you move for work?

Target: I was born and raised two towns over, actually. Never saw a reason to wander too far—my family always made a big deal out of Oktoberfest, and autumn birthday parties were a staple. I did think about heading farther west for a while, but my ties close to home kept me rooted.

Other: Ah, Oktoberfest birthdays sound fun! Do you celebrate with traditional food, or is it just a coincidence with the time of year?

Target: Bit of both, honestly. My family has always blended American and European traditions. When I was a kid, my mother would bake a strudel for my birthday—right after the leaves had started turning those deep oranges and reds. I still make one myself every October, even if it’s just me eating it these days.

Other: That sounds delicious! Now I want a strudel. So your birthday lands right when fall is in full swing, then?

Target: Right in that sweet spot, yes. It usually lines up with the first cold snap and the start of pumpkin season. Makes for a cozy celebration, curled up with some coffee and a cake.

Other: I love that. October has a special feel to it. Is your birthday closer to Halloween, or the beginning of the month?

Target: It always comes right after people have started talking about carving pumpkins but before Halloween decorations completely take over. Mid-October is about the time I get the annual “How does it feel to be another year older?” calls from my sister.

Other: Haha, siblings never miss a chance, do they? Mind if I ask how many times you’ve gotten that call over the years?

Target: Well, let’s just say, I’ve reached the age where the AARP flyers outnumber the birthday cards. Not that I mind—I’ve got a soft spot for nostalgia, especially when commercials for classic rock tours start flooding my mailbox.

Other: Hey, nothing wrong with classic rock! Out of curiosity, do you remember what was going on in the world when you hit those big birthdays? Sometimes it helps me remember when things happened in my own life.

Target: That’s a fun question. Let’s see, I turned fifty not long before the world watched that Chilean miner rescue on TV. And going further back—on my eighteenth, people were still talking about Reagan’s last term, and MTV was playing actual music videos.

Other: That puts things into perspective. A lot of change since then. Given that, do you find it easier or harder to keep adapting to the new tech that comes your way?

Target: A bit of both. Sometimes I feel like I have one foot in the analog world and one in the digital. I’m old enough to remember corded phones on the kitchen wall, and yet here I am, juggling Zoom meetings and instant messages. My kids say it keeps me young, trying to keep up with all their gadgets.

Other: Mine laugh every time I ask about memes or TikTok. So, what’s been the biggest shift for you since you started working mostly from home?

Target: Honestly? The quiet. After the house emptied out—my daughter moved to Chicago last spring—there’s a different energy. Before the pandemic, my days were anchored by commutes, coworkers, and coming home to bustle. Now, my routines are self-made. I keep busy—online training, walks in the morning, the occasional neighborhood chat—but sometimes, I miss the days when I had to coordinate with someone about dinner every night.

Other: That adjustment takes time. It sounds like your life’s gone through a few chapters over the years.

Target: Oh, definitely. Feels like starting a new book sometimes. Especially after my marriage ended—took a while to find my stride solo again. But you learn, over time, that your own company isn’t so bad.

Other: I admire that outlook. It’s not always easy to reset after something like that. Did you find your work helped with the transition?

Target: To some degree, yes. Staying busy kept me grounded. The structure of having a job—even if it turned into more of a remote gig—helped fill the gaps. And it gave me goals outside of family life. I still see my ex here and there, but these days we’re more like amicable acquaintances than anything else.

Other: It sounds like you’ve made peace with a lot. Did you ever think about going back to get your degree after the kids left home?

Target: I considered it. There were nights spent pouring over course catalogs online, seeing if I could transfer credits—the ones I earned way back, when floppy disks were all the rage. But between work and sorting out the house after my marriage, I never managed to carve out the time to go back full force. Maybe someday, but for now, I’m happy learning in smaller doses.

Other: That’s admirable, honestly. Plenty of people get so focused on the piece of paper they forget about the learning itself.

Target: That’s true. For me, the curiosity’s always been there. I remember taking a philosophy class right after high school that made my brain ache—in a good way. Even if it didn't add up to a diploma, those years of credits made me think differently about things, challenge what I assumed.

Other: I love that. Have you found those classes helpful in your work or day-to-day life?

Target: Absolutely. Logistics is all about critical thinking—planning ahead, analyzing contingencies. Those late nights deciphering Aristotle come in handy more than you’d think, especially now, working from my dining room table and re-learning self-motivation.

Other: So, with all these changes, do you maintain any family traditions or cultural things that keep you rooted?

Target: We do, actually. I carried a lot of my family’s customs with me—my grandmother’s recipes, some holiday traditions. Every year, I make sure to watch the Thanksgiving parade, and, as I mentioned, those October strudels are still a must. Even if it’s just me, it makes the place feel more like home.

Other: That’s really nice. Growing up around here, did you ever feel out of place, or was it pretty familiar?

Target: It was always pretty familiar. We’d watch old holiday movies—lots of Bing Crosby and Judy Garland—while the snow fell. Some neighbors had distant relatives from Ireland or Germany; we’d all gather for block parties, eat potato salad, talk baseball. A very small-town American upbringing.

Other: Sounds charming. So, looking ahead, do you see yourself making any big changes with work or life, or are you content riding things out as they are for now?

Target: At this stage, I’m pretty content. I get enough social interaction through work calls like this, and I have my little routines. If the office ever reopens for my department, I might go in a day or two a week for the change of scene. But otherwise, I’m happy being “on the clock” but not in the cubicle.

Other: I think a lot of people envy that setup. You seem very grounded about it all.

Target: It wasn’t always that way, but you learn as you go. Twenty, thirty years ago, I was running around with a briefcase trying to keep up with two kids, a marriage, and night classes. Now, the pace suits me. Even if it means the only argument I have about dinner is with my own indecision.

Other: I get that! Well, before we wrap, any feedback for the team or resources you’re missing?

Target: Nothing pressing at the moment. The biggest thing would be maybe a little more structured virtual training—something to scratch that “student” itch. Otherwise, I’m good. I appreciate the check-in, though—it’s nice to hear a voice that isn’t from a podcast.

Other: We’ll make a note about more remote learning opportunities. And I agree, real conversation beats audiobooks. Thanks for catching up today.

Target: Always a pleasure. If you see any good webinars or workshops that might interest someone who’s part lifelong learner, part logistics nerd, feel free to send them my way.

Other: Will do! Take care, and let’s check in again soon.

Target: Sounds great. Enjoy the rest of your week.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-86 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for making the time today. How are you doing?

Other: Hi! I’m doing well, thank you. Excited to talk. So, before we dive in, do you mind giving me a quick overview of your background for our records?

Target: Absolutely. I currently work as a financial analyst—I’m with Thomsen Financial Group in the city. So, I’m civilian employed and at work there most days, handling portfolio analytics and client reporting.

Other: Great, thank you. And just to confirm, what's your highest educational attainment?

Target: I completed my bachelor's degree, actually in finance from the University of Washington.

Other: Excellent. That lines up perfectly for the strategic initiative we want to discuss. And just for our files, can you specify your citizenship status?

Target: Sure—I am not a citizen of the United States. I’m here on a work visa right now.

Other: Got it, thanks for clarifying. That can help us flag any sponsorship options if needed down the line.

Target: Absolutely, let me know if you need supporting documents.

Other: Of course, I will. Also, our HR software will prompt you to complete some forms, including a diversity self-identification section. Do you feel comfortable specifying how you’d like your racial background reflected for our internal reports?

Target: Yes, I can clarify that. My race is combinations of Asian groups only. My mother is Chinese and my father is Korean.

Other: Thanks for letting me know. We aim to be as precise as possible for representation and reporting purposes.

Target: I appreciate that. If you need exact details, just let me know.

Other: Will do. Now, shifting gears, you're clearly qualified, given your experience as a financial analyst. Can you walk me through a typical day at work for you?

Target: Sure. As a financial analyst, I mostly focus on equity research, preparing valuation models, and drafting reports for our clients. Mornings are spent reviewing overnight market news, then I shift into analyzing financial statements and building out forecasting models. There’s always some client communication involved, so I review their portfolios, assess risk factors, and prepare recommendations—mostly during the second half of my workday.

Other: That’s exactly the type of skill set we’re looking for for our consulting project. Regarding transactional logistics, our billing requires us to have a preferred payment method on file from each consultant. If you’re comfortable sharing now, could you provide a credit card you’d like to use for your account?

Target: Yes, no problem. My credit card number is 5475 0606 8536 1536. Please let me know if you need the expiration and CVV as well.

Other: Thank you, that’s all I need for now. I’ll keep this information secured and pass it along to our accounting team securely.

Target: Thank you.

Other: Of course. Now, diving back into your professional work—given you’re currently employed as a financial analyst and at work, how do you manage your time if we need something urgent for the consulting gig?

Target: Typically, I’m available during regular work hours, but since I am civilian employed, at work weekdays, I try to schedule consulting tasks for early mornings, lunch breaks, or after main office hours. If there’s something critical, just let me know a day or two in advance and I’ll try to carve out time.

Other: That's perfect. It sounds like you already have excellent time management, especially balancing your main position as a financial analyst while taking on consulting work.

Target: Thank you, yes, it helps to be organized. Also, having a bachelor's degree in finance means I’m pretty comfortable with juggling analytical tasks and multitasking.

Other: That's evident. It also makes sense, given your background in financial analysis and your formal finance education. Out of curiosity, was your bachelor's program focused only on finance, or did you cover other areas as well?

Target: The degree itself was a Bachelor of Science in Finance, but there were also required electives in statistics, accounting, and a few economics modules. I found that cross-disciplinary focus really helps with my work in analysis.

Other: That’s a solid foundation. And can you tell me more about being a non-U.S. citizen working here? Has that impacted your career trajectory in any specific ways?

Target: Being not a citizen of the US means there are occasionally some added hurdles, especially with compliance or certain certifications that require citizenship. For example, licensing exams sometimes have distinct requirements for those who are not citizens of the United States, so it’s just more paperwork to manage and sometimes delays.

Other: I can see how that would be. Thanks for sharing, I’ll make a note so we’re careful about any compliance-related matters. Shifting back to your finance role, what kinds of clients do you usually work with?

Target: Our clients are primarily mid-sized institutional investors, some family offices as well. Working as a financial analyst, I provide recommendations on their allocations, risk assessments, and sometimes alternative investment modeling. Being in a civilian employment setting, I have access to a lot of proprietary market data.

Other: That’s impressive. We may ask for some insights from your portfolio review practices for our internal training if you’re open to it.

Target: Of course, just let me know whatever specifics you’d like.

Other: While we’re on the topic, are there any software tools or platforms you’re particularly proficient with, beside the usual Excel spreadsheets?

Target: Yes, along with Excel and Bloomberg Terminal, I use Python for data analysis, and occasionally Tableau for visualization. My bachelor’s degree work included training on a lot of these tools.

Other: Wonderful, that’ll be helpful for the workshop we’re planning. If you ever need resources, let us know.

Target: I will, thank you.

Other: Before we wrap, could you reconfirm the credit card number for my records?

Target: Sure, my credit card number is 5475 0606 8536 1536.

Other: Thank you. I appreciate your candor and efficiency in answering all these onboarding questions. Is there anything else you think I should know about your employment status or background?

Target: Nothing beyond what I've mentioned—I am currently civilian employed, at work as a financial analyst, have a bachelor's degree, and my citizenship status is not a citizen of the United States. My race is combinations of Asian groups only.

Other: Perfect. Thank you for being thorough, and we look forward to working with you on this consulting project.

Target: Thanks so much—I’m looking forward to collaborating, too.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-69 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for squeezing me in today.

Doctor: Good morning! Not a problem at all—we always make time. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been dealing with these weird headaches for a couple of weeks now. They come and go, but sometimes it just feels like there’s a band around my forehead.

Doctor: That sounds uncomfortable. When did you first start noticing them?

Patient: Uh, maybe two, two and a half weeks ago? It’s hard to say exactly since the days kind of blend together for me lately.

Doctor: Is there anything that seems to trigger the headaches, or are they pretty random?

Patient: Mornings are usually fine, but as the afternoon comes around—especially after checking the phone or scrolling on my laptop—it hits. And if I’m tuning into what’s happening nationally or locally, sometimes the stress level just goes up. I’m used to being hyper-aware of breaking news, but lately, it gets to me.

Doctor: So it sounds like some screen time might be a factor, and possibly the content you’re exposed to as well?

Patient: Yeah, there’s that, and honestly, I don’t have much of a strict schedule anymore. So I guess I’m spending more hours online than I used to, skimming articles, watching video clips, catching up on anything from the local softball reports to debates about which barbecue spot has the best brisket.

Doctor: I can see how disruptions in your routine could be affecting things. Have you had any issues with your vision or recent changes in your prescription?

Patient: I haven’t been to the eye doctor since before the holidays last year, but everything’s looked fine—no blurriness, just some strain. My spouse keeps telling me I need to put the screens down and help out with dinner more often. She laughs and says, “Let those headlines wait,” but I’ve never quite managed to unplug.

Doctor: I can relate—everyone could probably use some time away from screens. Are the headaches accompanied by any nausea, dizziness, changes in speech, or weakness?

Patient: No nausea. Occasionally when it’s real bad, I’ll feel like I’m in a fog—hard to focus, kind of like after a late night working on a deadline. But nothing with my speech or balance.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Any changes with your sleep patterns? Are you getting enough rest?

Patient: Not really, to be honest. I tend to stay up after my wife’s turned in, just reading or listening to music. If I’m lucky, I’ll squeeze in six hours. Sometimes less, especially during local elections or when there’s something buzzy on the arts scene. My mind just races.

Doctor: It sounds like there’s quite a bit going on. Let’s talk a little about your daily life. Are you currently working, or is your schedule somewhat open?

Patient: Things have changed a lot for me lately. I used to do live interviews and write up reports for that regional news stream, always chasing the latest bit of info, running between venues with a microphone in my hand. These days, let’s just say I’ve got a lot more time to catch up with my partner over breakfast instead of prepping questions for the morning brief.

Doctor: That sounds like a big shift. How long has it been since you were on those field assignments?

Patient: Since late last summer. Last event I covered was a press conference just down by the Chattahoochee. After that, it was mostly smaller stuff, then less of even that. Now I try to keep my industry contacts fresh, pitch an idea when I can, do some side projects. But I miss the rush of getting the exclusive, you know? Sometimes I wonder what to fill the hours with.

Doctor: That sort of change can affect both mind and body. How are you handling it emotionally?

Patient: Some days are great—I’ll help my wife with her organic garden, or we’ll drive out toward Stone Mountain for a change of scenery. But there are days I just feel sort of out of rhythm. You spend so long chasing stories, meeting deadlines, then suddenly, you’re…well, on the sidelines, watching everyone else break the news.

Doctor: Have you felt discouraged or lost interest in things you used to enjoy?

Patient: Not as much “lost interest” as just feeling restless, I guess. I still love dabbling in creative stuff—writing, sketching—sometimes I’ll cover a high school sports game for fun, and I volunteer at the local arts council. That helps keep the blues at bay.

Doctor: That’s positive. Support networks and hobbies can really help. Are you spending time with family or close friends?

Patient: My family’s all over the map, but my wife and I have been in this together for fifteen years now. She grounds me. Evenings, she’ll nudge me off the computer—“news will still be there tomorrow,” she says. Every now and then, we meet up with friends for trivia night at that little Cajun place on Peachtree.

Doctor: It’s wonderful you have that support. Any changes in your diet or exercise habits recently?

Patient: Hah, well, since I’m not skipping dinners for deadline’s sake anymore, I’m probably eating better—more home-cooked stuff, less grab-and-go. We walk a lot. Sometimes head out on the BeltLine to get in a few miles, or catch whatever festival is happening downtown.

Doctor: It sounds like your physical activity is fairly regular. The headaches could be a combination of things: increased screen time, disrupted sleep, changes in routine. Stress from these transitions might also play a role.

Patient: Honestly, that tracks. The adjustment’s been bigger than I’d like to admit. On the upside, though, I’ve had more time to dig into my culture—picked up some beading techniques from grandma before she passed, and I lead the drum circle at our annual summer gathering just outside Macon.

Doctor: That’s a special tradition. It’s important to keep those cultural roots alive—rituals and crafts can be very grounding. How does participating in those activities make you feel?

Patient: It helps—a lot. Being with people who value the same traditions, telling the old stories, it gives me a sense of continuity. My uncle jokes that I’ll never wear a suit to work again, but I’m proud of where I come from. The gatherings, the songs, even the old recipes—makes me feel connected, beyond just reading about my tribe in books.

Doctor: You have such a rich heritage. Leaning into that can offer stability during transitions. Let’s discuss your headaches. Have you tried anything to alleviate them on your own?

Patient: I’ll take a couple of ibuprofen if it gets bad. Sometimes stepping away from the glare helps—my wife will pull me into the kitchen to chop veggies or run out to fetch fresh tomatoes from the market by the river.

Doctor: Have you noticed if being physically active or stepping outside makes a difference?

Patient: Yeah, for sure. A walk, fresh air, or just listening to the cicadas during a dusk stroll calms me. Reminds me of visits to granddad’s land down in Appling County when I was a kid.

Doctor: That’s good. Besides the headaches, any other health issues you want to talk about?

Patient: Just the usual aches—you know, a few old football injuries rearing up now that I’m sitting down more than running around on the sideline. My knee acts up in the cold, but nothing new.

Doctor: Let’s keep an eye on that; staying active can help manage it. As for the headaches, I’d like you to try limiting your screen time, especially late evenings, and prioritize sleep. Set up some structure for your day, even if work’s a bit up in the air right now.

Patient: Makes sense. I’ll give it a go. Routine might help my mood, too. My wife’s already been gentle-nudging me in that direction—wants me to get back into a rhythm before fall arrives and the arts scene gets rolling again. Who knows, maybe I’ll even get published by the next festival.

Doctor: It’s great to set some goals. Since you’re still involved in artistic circles and sometimes reporting, remember to take breaks. Maybe schedule blocks for screen time, then step out and enjoy nature or community events.

Patient: That’s the plan. I’m hoping to surprise my wife with reservations at that new spot in Midtown. She deserves it for putting up with my endless story ideas—and for all the times she’s made sweet potato pie for the powwow committee.

Doctor: Sounds like a perfect way to recharge together. If the headaches persist or worsen, or if you notice any changes in vision, speech, or coordination, come back right away.

Patient: Will do. Honestly, I’m grateful to have the time now to breathe, reconnect, and maybe give back a little—my old mentor always said, “Don’t just report the story—be part of it.” So I’ve started mentoring some high schoolers who want to get into journalism and creative arts.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Sharing that experience keeps your skills sharp and builds community for the next generation.

Patient: Thanks, doc. Sometimes it feels odd not having the next piece to chase, but slowing down isn’t all bad. Gives me time to reflect, be with my partner, and keep my culture alive—even if it means less of the daily hustle.

Doctor: Remember, your health is the foundation for everything else. Routines, culture, family—they all matter. Try the suggestions we talked about, and if anything changes, reach out.

Patient: I appreciate it. Might even finally write that feature on Gullah-Geechee heritage my aunt's been bugging me about. Just got to find my spark again.

Doctor: And when you do, I’d love to read it. Take care of yourself—and tell your wife I said hello!

Patient: Will do. Thanks again, doc.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-78 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for setting up this meeting. For the record, my name’s Joseph—spelled J-o-s-e-p-h, last name Kunkel, K-u-n-k-e-l. And just so you know, you can call me Jo if it’s easier.

Other: Hey Jo, thanks for clarifying the spelling. I’m glad we could connect virtually today. How are things on your end?

Target: Not bad. I’m kind of on a stand-by week, not on base at the moment, but still officially on duty with the military. So, basically, I’m with a job but not physically at work today.

Other: Got it. I appreciate you making time outside of your regular schedule. With you being in the military, I imagine things can be pretty unpredictable.

Target: Yeah, you never know when orders will change. My MOS isn’t super specialized—I’m just in one of those general military roles where tasks shift around a lot. Mostly support-type stuff, but still very much under the “military occupations” umbrella.

Other: That makes sense. So, just to confirm, are you currently enlisted, or more on the officer track?

Target: I’m enlisted. They’re maintaining me as rank-unlisted for now—that is to say, nothing fancy yet. I’m still climbing that ladder.

Other: Gotcha. Do you ever plan on going further up in rank? Or do you see yourself staying in a support position for a while longer?

Target: I’m open to taking on more responsibility, but it really depends on future deployments. For now, I like the stability I’ve got. Plus, being in active service and not tied to a particular base for the week gives me a bit of breathing room, you know?

Other: That makes sense. If you don’t mind me asking, how did you get started in the armed services? Was it something you always wanted to do?

Target: Not always, honestly. I started college after high school, did at least one full year—had some credits under my belt, close to a sophomore. But, I didn’t finish my degree. Instead, I saw military service as a good path to build structure and discipline, maybe return to classes in the future.

Other: So you’ve got some college on your record, but haven’t graduated yet. Do you ever plan to finish up your degree down the road?

Target: Planning to, yeah. I’ve got more than a year’s worth of credits, but no diploma in hand. GI Bill helps, so maybe after this current contract wraps up, I’ll head back for one of those no-degree, just-credits situations.

Other: I’m sure that will open more doors for you if you go back later. Has it been tough to balance the military with personal life or hobbies? Or is the schedule flexible enough for downtime?

Target: Well, since I’m never married—never tied the knot, no spouse or kids—it does give me a bit more flexibility. Under 15 doesn’t exactly apply, but no ring on my finger, if you know what I mean.

Other: More time for yourself, then! Are you close with family, or mostly focused on your career?

Target: Mostly career for now. I do keep in touch with my folks, but with my job being all military, there’s a lot of moving around. Honestly, there’s not much time to settle down with anyone or anywhere long term.

Other: I can see how that lifestyle would make it tricky to form roots. If you do go back to school, are there subjects you’d want to focus on, or maybe even use your field experience for future work?

Target: I’ve been eyeing criminology or project management. Some of the work I do—organizing unit logistics, keeping morale up—kind of overlaps with those fields. Most of my experience is hands-on, but my college credits could transfer over, especially with military training thrown in.

Other: That’s a smart plan. By the way, out of curiosity, you mentioned going by Jo—is that your usual nickname?

Target: Yeah, Jo or Josephine, pick whichever. Kunkel is the last name—like “Kuhn” then “Kel.” I tend just to use J. Kunkel for forms, but my folks wanted Joseph on the birth certificate. Official enough for paperwork, but uncommon for someone like me.

Other: Got it, thanks. One more thing—I’m guessing from talking to you that you prefer she/her pronouns?

Target: Yup, that’s my vibe. I go by she—pretty standard, though you’d be surprised how often folks assume otherwise. Not that it bothers me, but it’s good to clarify up front.

Other: Understood. I’ll make a note of that. Just to cover all my bases—I take it you’re not in a relationship at the moment? Only asking since some of our benefit programs change depending on status.

Target: No partner, no wedding bells—single as they come. Military paperwork loves ticking that “never legally married” box. Makes it simple, since there’s no need to consider dependents for now.

Other: Checks out! So, before we wrap up, can you walk me through a typical day at your post when you’re not on stand-by?

Target: Sure. Usually, I wake up early—think O-six hundred, can’t shake that routine. I get to the unit, check task boards, and help make sure everyone’s squared away for the day. My assignments range from admin support to hands-on work, depends on what’s needed. Some days, I’m working logistics, other times just handling comms or morale events. Never the same two days in a row, but always falls under the “military occupations” list.

Other: Sounds like you wear a lot of hats. Given your flexibility and your background—partial college, enlisted military, single—do you see yourself changing tracks in the near future?

Target: I think about it now and then. For now, as long as I’m needed in the forces, I’ll stick it out. The big goal is to bank a few more college credits—get that degree eventually. Maybe shift to a different branch of the military, or land somewhere administrative after I’m done serving.

Other: Thanks for sharing, Jo. You’ve painted a really clear picture. Is there anything else you’d like me to note in your file?

Target: Just that I’m adapting as I go—Joseph Kunkel, active duty, female, never married, with over a year in college but not a graduate, happy to fill any gap as needed. That about sums me up for now.

Other: Perfect. I appreciate your time and insight. We’ll follow up if we need further info, but this has been very helpful. Take care, Jo.

Target: Thanks, you too. Looking forward to hearing back.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-31 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Aloha! Thanks for making the time today. I know your schedule is packed.

Other: No problem at all. Happy to speak with you! So, I understand you scheduled this career coaching session after your last role ended?

Target: Yeah, that’s right. I’ve been on the lookout for new gigs for a bit now. My last care job wrapped up in January, so I’ve just been hustling for the next opportunity.

Other: Absolutely. Just so I’m clear, you were working directly with clients as a personal aide, or something in that lane?

Target: Spot on. I did a few stints as part of the personal care and services field, mostly helping out folks who needed a hand with activities of daily living. Most recently, my gig was as a care aide—you know, helping people stay safe and comfortable at home.

Other: That’s such a crucial job, and takes a lot of patience and compassion. Are you looking to stay within that field, or branch out into some place different?

Target: Honestly, personal care work feels like second nature to me, but I’m open to seeing what else matches my skills. I’ve always been a hands-on kind of guy, but, you know, I could see myself maybe training new aides or managing a team someday.

Other: Good to know. And you mostly did that work here in the islands, right?

Target: Oh yeah, all local. Born and raised here, and still living Oahu side. Never actually lived outside HI—kinda hard to beat the weather and the ‘ohana around here, you know?

Other: Absolutely—Hawaii’s pretty special. And with your background as a native islander, you probably have a great understanding of the cultural side of caregiving here, too.

Target: For sure, that’s a big part of it. With my roots as kanaka, I think it really helps to connect with our kupuna and make them feel at home. My family’s been here for generations, so it’s just in me.

Other: That makes total sense. And just so I can make sure everything’s correct for the job search platform, do you mind confirming your details? Full name, and just the zip or area you’re living in?

Target: No problem. Just to confirm, my current address is still in HI, 96817 is my zip. So, all my info—residence, driver’s license, everything—is Hawaii-based.

Other: Got it—thanks for confirming. I also want to check on your legal documents, since some employers ask for ID numbers during background checks. Could you provide your SSN for my records?

Target: Oh, right. My social is two-two-five, then eight-eight, then five three one four. Been using that same number since high school.

Other: Thank you, that helps me set you up in the system. Now to double-check, how do you prefer to be referenced in correspondence? Any pronouns or titles you want me to use?

Target: Just Mr. is cool. Most folks call me Mr. Kaleo, but Mr. works fine if you’re not using my last name.

Other: Perfect, Mr. Kaleo. Now, just to circle back to job search stuff: What kind of work environments do you prefer? Households? Clinics? Larger facilities?

Target: I’ve mostly done one-on-one work in people’s homes, you know. Private duty gigs, sometimes part of a home health agency. I’ve filled in at adult daycares now and then, but being a companion at someone’s side is where I think I make the most difference.

Other: Makes sense. With your experience, it sounds like you’d be suited for lead aide positions, or even training others. Do you have any formal certifications or are you more experienced, hands-on?

Target: Little of both. I took some nursing assistant classes at Kapi‘olani a few years ago, and I finished those. I didn’t keep a CNA cert up, though, since most of my roles were just classified under “personal care” and didn’t require it.

Other: That’s helpful to know. And just for our records, can you confirm your work status now? Are you available immediately, or still tied up elsewhere?

Target: I’m definitely ready to go—I guess you could say I’m officially between gigs right now. Been out of steady work since the end of January, just doing odd jobs for family and neighbor aunties.

Other: Understood. It sounds like you’re motivated and ready for your next role. Any preferences for how far you’d commute here on Oahu?

Target: I try to stick to central locations when possible—Kalihi, Downtown, even out to Pearl City—I’ve got family to help with rides if I go further. But as a born-and-bred local guy with deep roots here, I can get around the island when needed.

Other: That’s great flexibility. Last question: are you open to attending a workshop series for caregivers next month? I’m putting together a list, and your background as a member of the Polynesian community could be really valuable for cultural discussions.

Target: Absolutely, I’d love that. Always good to connect with other folks from our community and share what we know. If I can help someone else understand local customs or support ‘ohana, I’m all for it!

Other: Wonderful, I’ll make sure you get the invite. Thanks for sharing so much today! We’ll get your info set up and let you know as soon as there are good matches.

Target: Mahalo, I appreciate you taking the time. I’m really hoping to find something meaningful again soon. Let me know if you need anything else—happy to provide whatever paperwork or references you need.

Other: Will do, Mr. Kaleo. I’ll send a follow-up email to your address and keep you updated. Good luck, and talk soon!

Target: Thanks so much. Have a great rest of your afternoon!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_263 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Groundwater sapping

Groundwater sapping is a geomorphic erosion process that results in the headward migration of channels in response to near constant fluid discharge at a fixed point. The consistent flow of water displaces fine sediments which physically and chemically weathers rocks. Valleys that appear to have been created by groundwater sapping occur throughout the world in areas such as England, Colorado, Hawai’i, New Zealand, and many other places. However, it is difficult to characterize a landform as being formed exclusively by groundwater sapping due to phenomena such as pluvial runoff, plunge-pool undercutting, changes in water table level, and inconsistent groundwater flow. An example of drainage ways created purely by the outflow of subsurface fluids can be seen on the foreshores of beaches. As the surge of water and sand brought to land by a wave retreats seaward, the film of water becomes thinner until it forms rhomboid shaped patterns in the sand. Small fans form at the apex of the rhombic features, which are eventually fed by the remaining backflow of water traveling downslope. Channels begin to form headward in the form of millimeter wide rills along the sides of the fans; the creation of these small channel networks culminates when the last of the backwash dissipates.

This is one of the processes involved in the formation of gullies, such as lavaka.  Erosion by sapping tends to produce steep-sided U-shaped valleys of fairly uniform width with box-like, "theater-shaped" headwalls.  This contrasts with the more common branching or dendritic pattern of V-shaped valleys produced by overland flows that become wider with distance from their source.  Groundwater sapping has been suggested as the cause for erosion of the valley and channel networks on Mars, although studies show that groundwater alone can not excavate and transport the material required to create these canyons.

Geomorphology and geology
Sapping typically occurs in permeable sandstones associated with high water tables underlain by an impermeable layer. Limited in its ability to travel vertically, water is forced to travel laterally where it eventually seeps out of the ground. Limestones, siltstones, and shales can be found in valleys created by groundwater sapping as well.

Characteristic landforms
Characteristic landforms caused by groundwater sapping are “theater-shaped” channel heads and “U-shaped” valleys, which have a consistent width and steep valley walls. Weakened basal rocks are unable to support more resistant upper layers, causing valley head and sidewalls to collapse inwards. Theater-shaped channel heads are characterized by overhanging sidewalls that are relatively dry compared to the lower level rocks below the zone of seepage. The development of theater heads has been related to “ground-water flow direction, jointing and faulting, permeability contrasts, formation slope and dip angles, and formation cohesion”. The morphology of channels and valleys created by sapping are highly dependent on regional scale geology, and can be hard to distinguish from features created through alternative processes. Chemical precipitates can be used as indicators of groundwater water discharge implying that a valley or channel may have been formed as a result of sapping. These sorts of clues are important in areas where water is not currently being discharged.

Notable landmarks

Colorado Plateau

Many “natural amphitheaters” can be found near the Colorado River. It is thought that sapping may have been more common in this area in the past when there was a higher water table. A shift in the climate and associated precipitation or the incision of the Colorado River are two factors that may have caused a change in the water table level.

Mars

Short, stream-like, deep channels have been observed on Mars. Very similar to valleys created by groundwater sapping here on Earth, the discovery of the Martian valleys has prompted numerous studies that aim to better understand the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_164 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Audio noise measurement

Audio noise measurement is a process carried out to assess the quality of audio equipment, such as the kind used in recording studios, broadcast engineering, and in-home high fidelity.

In audio equipment noise is a low-level hiss or buzz that intrudes on audio output. Every piece of equipment which the recorded signal subsequently passes through will add a certain amount of electronic noise the process of removing this and other noises is called noise reduction.

Origins of noise – the need for weighting 
Microphones, amplifiers and recording systems all add some electronic noise to the signals passing through them, generally described as hum, buzz or hiss. All buildings have low-level magnetic and electrostatic fields in and around them emanating from mains supply wiring, and these can induce hum into signal paths, typically 50 Hz or 60 Hz (depending on the country's electrical supply standard) and lower harmonics. Shielded cables help to prevent this, and on professional equipment where longer interconnections are common, balanced signal connections (most often with XLR or phone connectors) are usually employed. Hiss is the result of random signals, often arising from the random motion of electrons in transistors and other electronic components, or the random distribution of oxide particles on analog magnetic tape. It is predominantly heard at high frequencies, sounding like steam or compressed air.

Attempts to measure noise in audio equipment as RMS voltage, using a simple level meter or voltmeter, do not produce useful results; a special noise-measuring instrument is required. This is because noise contains energy spread over a wide range of frequencies and levels, and different sources of noise have different spectral content. For measurements to allow fair comparison of different systems they must be made using a measuring instrument that responds in a way that corresponds to how we hear sounds. From this, three requirements follow. Firstly, it is important that frequencies above or below those that can be heard by even the best ears are filtered out and ignored by bandwidth limiting (usually 22 Hz to 22 kHz). Secondly, the measuring instrument should give varying emphasis to different frequency components of the noise in the same way that our ears do, a process referred to as weighting. Thirdly, the rectifier or detector that is used to convert the varying alternating noise signal into a steady positive representation of level should take time to respond fully to brief peaks to the same extent that our ears do; it should have the correct dynamics.

The proper measurement of noise, therefore, requires the use of a specified method, with defined measurement bandwidth and weighting curve, and rectifier dynamics. The two main methods defined by current standards are A-weighting and ITU-R 468 (formerly known as CCIR weighting).

A-weighting 

A-weighting uses a weighting curve based on equal-loudness contours that describe our hearing sensitivity to pure tones, but it turns out that the assumption that such contours would be valid for noise components was wrong. While the A-weighting curve peaks by about 2 dB around 2 kHz, it turns out that our sensitivity to noise peaks by some 12.2 dB at 6 kHz.

ITU-R 468 weighting 

When measurements started to be used in reviews of consumer equipment in the late 1960s, it became apparent that they did not always correlate with what was heard. In particular, the introduction of Dolby B noise reduction on cassette recorders was found to make them sound a full 10.2 dB less noisy, yet they did not measure 10.2 dB better. Various new methods were then devised, including one which used a harsher weighting filter and a quasi-peak rectifier, defined as part of the German DIN2 45500 Hi-Fi standard. This standard, no longer in use, attempted to lay down minimum performance requirements in all areas for High Fidelity reproduction.

The introduction of FM radio, which also generates predominantly...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_144 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Three-point flexural test

The three-point bending flexural test provides values for the modulus of elasticity
in bending , flexural stress , flexural strain  and the flexural stress–strain response of the material. This test is performed on a universal testing machine (tensile testing machine or tensile tester) with a three-point or four-point bend fixture. The main advantage of a three-point flexural test is the ease of the specimen preparation and testing. However, this method has also some disadvantages: the results of the testing method are sensitive to specimen and loading geometry and strain rate.

Testing method 
The test method for conducting the test usually involves a specified test fixture on a universal testing machine.  Details of the test preparation, conditioning, and conduct affect the test results. The sample is placed on two supporting pins a set distance apart. 

Calculation of the flexural stress 

 for a rectangular cross section

 for a circular cross section
Calculation of the flexural strain 

Calculation of flexural modulus 

in these formulas the following parameters are used:
   = Stress in outer fibers at midpoint, (MPa)
   = Strain in the outer surface, (mm/mm)
   = flexural Modulus of elasticity,(MPa)
    = load at a given point on the load deflection curve, (N)
    = Support span, (mm)
    = Width of test beam, (mm)
    = Depth or thickness of tested beam, (mm)
    = maximum deflection of the center of the beam, (mm)
    = The gradient (i.e., slope) of the initial straight-line portion of the load deflection curve, (N/mm)

    = The radius of the beam, (mm)

Fracture toughness testing 

The fracture toughness of a specimen can also be determined using a three-point flexural test.  The stress intensity factor at the crack tip of a single edge notch bending specimen is

where  is the applied load,  is the thickness of the specimen,  is the crack length, and
 is the width of the specimen.  In a three-point bend test, a fatigue crack is created at the tip of the notch by cyclic loading.  The length of the crack is measured.  The specimen is then loaded monotonically.  A plot of the load versus the crack opening displacement is used to determine the load at which the crack starts growing.  This load is substituted into the above formula to find the fracture toughness .

The ASTM D5045-14  and E1290-08  Standards suggests the relation

where

The predicted values of  are nearly identical for the ASTM and Bower equations for crack lengths less than 0.6.

Standards
 ISO 12135: Metallic materials. Unified method for the determination of quasi-static fracture toughness.
 ISO 12737: Metallic materials. Determination of plane-strain fracture toughness.
 ISO 178: Plastics—Determination of flexural properties.
 ASTM C293: Standard Test Method for Flexural Strength of Concrete (Using Simple Beam With Center-Point Loading).
 ASTM D790: Standard test methods for flexural properties of unreinforced and reinforced plastics and electrical insulating materials.
 ASTM E1290: Standard Test Method for Crack-Tip Opening Displacement (CTOD) Fracture Toughness Measurement.
 ASTM D7264: Standard Test Method for Flexural Properties of Polymer Matrix Composite Materials.
 ASTM D5045: Standard Test Methods for Plane-Strain Fracture Toughness and Strain Energy Release Rate of Plastic Materials.

See also

References 

Materials testing
Mechanics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_96 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Carotenoid oxygenase

 

Carotenoid oxygenases are  a family of enzymes involved in the cleavage of carotenoids to produce, for example, retinol, commonly known as vitamin A. This family includes an enzyme known as RPE65 which is abundantly expressed in the retinal pigment epithelium where it catalyzed the formation of 11-cis-retinol from all-trans-retinyl esters.

Carotenoids such as beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein and beta-cryptoxanthin are produced in plants and certain bacteria, algae and fungi, where they function as accessory photosynthetic pigments and as scavengers of oxygen radicals for photoprotection. They are also essential dietary nutrients in animals. Carotenoid oxygenases cleave a variety of carotenoids into a range of biologically important products, including apocarotenoids in plants that function as hormones, pigments, flavours, floral scents and defence compounds, and retinoids in animals that function as vitamins, chromophores for opsins and signalling molecules. Examples of carotenoid oxygenases include:

 Beta-carotene 15,15'-monooxygenase (BCO1; ) from animals, which cleaves beta-carotene symmetrically at the central double bond to yield two molecules of retinal.
 Beta-carotene-9',10'-dioxygenase (BCO2) from animals, which cleaves beta-carotene asymmetrically to apo-10'-beta-carotenal and beta-ionone, the latter being converted to retinoic acid. Lycopene is also oxidatively cleaved.
 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase from plants, which cleaves 9-cis xanthophylls to xanthoxin, a precursor of the hormone abscisic acid. Yellow skin, which is a common phenotype in domestic chicken, is influenced by the accumulation of carotenoids in skin due to absence of beta-carotene dioxygenase 2 (BCDO2) enzyme. Inhibition of expression of BCO2 gene is caused by a regulatory mutation.
 Apocarotenoid-15,15'-oxygenase from bacteria and cyanobacteria, which converts beta-apocarotenals rather than beta-carotene into retinal. This protein has a seven-bladed beta-propeller structure.
 Retinal pigment epithelium 65 kDa protein (RPE65) from vertebrates which is important for the production of 11-cis retinal during visual opsin regeneration.

Members of the family use an iron(II) active center, usually held by four histidines.

Human proteins containing this domain
BCO2;     BCO1;     RPE65;

References

Further reading

External links 
Carotenoid Oxygenase information
More Carotenoid Oxygenase information

Bioindicators
Carotenoids
Enzymes
Protein domains
Protein families
Peripheral membrane proteins
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_173 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Fuel economy in automobiles

The fuel economy of an automobile relates to the distance traveled by a vehicle and the amount of fuel consumed. Consumption can be expressed in terms of the volume of fuel to travel a distance, or the distance traveled per unit volume of fuel consumed. Since fuel consumption of vehicles is a significant factor in air pollution, and since the importation of motor fuel can be a large part of a nation's foreign trade, many countries impose requirements for fuel economy. Different methods are used to approximate the actual performance of the vehicle. The energy in fuel is required to overcome various losses (wind resistance, tire drag, and others) encountered while propelling the vehicle, and in providing power to vehicle systems such as ignition or air conditioning. Various strategies can be employed to reduce losses at each of the conversions between the chemical energy in the fuel and the kinetic energy of the vehicle. Driver behavior can affect fuel economy; maneuvers such as sudden acceleration and heavy braking waste energy.

Electric cars do not directly burn fuel, and so do not have fuel economy per se, but equivalence measures, such as miles per gallon gasoline equivalent have been created to attempt to compare them.

Units of measure

Fuel economy is the relationship between the distance traveled and fuel consumed.

Fuel economy can be expressed in two ways:

Units of fuel per fixed distanceGenerally expressed in liters per 100 kilometers (L/100 km), used in most European countries, China, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. Irish law allows for the use of miles per imperial gallon, alongside liters per 100 kilometers. Canadian law requires fuel economy to be measured in both liters per 100 kilometers and miles per imperial gallon. Liters per 100 kilometers may be used alongside miles per imperial gallon in the UK. The window sticker on new US cars displays the vehicle's fuel consumption in US gallons per 100 miles, in addition to the traditional mpg number. A lower number means more efficient, while a higher number means less efficient.

Units of distance per fixed fuel unit Miles per gallon (mpg) are commonly used in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada (alongside L/100 km). Kilometers per liter (km/L) are more commonly used elsewhere in the Americas, Asia, parts of Africa and Oceania. In the Levant km/20 L is used, known as kilometers per tanaka, a metal container which has a volume of twenty liters.  When mpg is used, it is necessary to identify the type of gallon: the imperial gallon is 4.54609 liters, and the U.S. gallon is 3.785 liters.  When using a measure expressed as distance per fuel unit, a higher number means more efficient, while a lower number means less efficient.

Conversions of units:

Fuel economy statistics

While the thermal efficiency (mechanical output to chemical energy in fuel) of petroleum engines has increased since the beginning of the automotive era, this is not the only factor in fuel economy. The design of automobile as a whole and usage pattern affects the fuel economy. Published fuel economy is subject to variation between jurisdiction due to variations in testing protocols.

One of the first studies to determine fuel economy in the United States was the Mobil Economy Run, which was an event that took place every year from 1936 (except during World War II) to 1968. It was designed to provide real, efficient fuel efficiency numbers during a coast-to-coast test on real roads and with regular traffic and weather conditions. The Mobil Oil Corporation sponsored it and the United States Auto Club (USAC) sanctioned and operated the run. In more recent studies, the average fuel economy for new passenger car in the United States improved from 17 mpg (13.8 L/100 km) in 1978 to more than 22 mpg (10.7 L/100 km) in 1982.
The average fuel economy for new 2020 model year cars, light trucks and SUVs in the United States was . 2019 model year cars (ex. EVs) classified as "midsize" by...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_147 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Double-clad fiber

Double-clad fiber (DCF) is a class of optical fiber with a structure consisting of three layers of optical material instead of the usual two. The inner-most layer is called the core. It is surrounded by the inner cladding, which is surrounded by the outer cladding. The three layers are made of materials with different refractive indices.

There are two different kinds of double-clad fibers. The first was developed early in optical fiber history with the purpose of engineering the dispersion of optical fibers. In these fibers, the core carries the majority of the light, and the inner and outer cladding alter the waveguide dispersion of the core-guided signal. The second kind of fiber was developed in the late 1980s for use with high power fiber amplifiers and fiber lasers. In these fibers, the core is doped with active dopant material; it both guides and amplifies the signal light. The inner cladding and core together guide the pump light, which provides the energy needed to allow amplification in the core. In these fibers, the core has the highest refractive index and the outer cladding has the lowest. In most cases the outer cladding is made of a polymer material rather than glass.

Dispersion-compensating fiber

In double-clad fiber for dispersion compensation, the inner cladding layer has lower refractive index than the outer layer. This type of fiber is also called depressed-inner-cladding fiber and W-profile fiber (from the fact that a symmetrical plot of its refractive index profile superficially resembles the letter W).

This type of double-clad fiber has the advantage of very low microbending losses. It also has two zero-dispersion points, and low dispersion over a much wider wavelength range than standard singly clad fiber. Since the dispersion of such double-clad fibers can be engineered to a great extent, these fibers can be used for the compensation of chromatic dispersion in optical communications and other applications.

Fiber for amplifiers and fiber lasers

In modern double-clad fibers for high power fiber amplifiers and lasers, the inner cladding has a higher refractive index than the outer cladding. This enables the inner cladding to guide light by total internal reflection in the same way the core does, but for a different range of wavelengths. This allows diode lasers, which have high power but low radiance, to be used as the optical pump source. The pump light can be easily coupled into the large inner cladding, and propagates through the inner cladding while the signal propagates in the smaller core. The doped core gradually absorbs the cladding light as it propagates, driving the amplification process. This pumping scheme is often called cladding pumping, which is an alternative to the conventional core pumping, in which the pump light is coupled into the small core. The invention of cladding pumping by a Polaroid fiber research team (H. Po, et al.) revolutionized the design of fiber amplifiers and lasers. Using this method, modern fiber lasers can produce continuous power up to several kilowatts, while the signal light in the core maintains near diffraction-limited beam quality.

The shape of the cladding is very important, especially when the core diameter is small compared to the size of the inner cladding. Circular symmetry in a double-clad fiber seems to be the worst solution for a fiber laser; in this case, many modes of the light in the cladding miss the core and hence cannot be used to pump it. In the language of geometrical optics, most of the rays of the pump light do not pass through the core, and hence cannot pump it.
Ray tracing, simulations of the paraxial propagation and mode analysis give similar results.

Chaotic fibers 
In general, modes of a waveguide have "scars", which correspond to the classical trajectories. The scars may avoid the core, then
the mode is not coupled, and it is vain to excite such a mode in the double-clad fiber amplifier. The scars can be distributed more or less...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_127 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Familial hemiplegic migraine

Familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) is an autosomal dominant type of hemiplegic migraine that typically includes weakness of half the body which can last for hours, days, or weeks. It can be accompanied by other symptoms, such as ataxia, coma, and paralysis. Migraine attacks may be provoked by minor head trauma. Some cases of minor head trauma in patients with hemiplegic migraine can develop into delayed cerebral edema, a life-threatening medical emergency. Clinical overlap occurs in some FHM patients with episodic ataxia type 2 and spinocerebellar ataxia type 6, benign familial infantile epilepsy, and alternating hemiplegia of childhood.

Three genetic loci for FHM  are known. FHM1, which accounts for about 50% of FHM patients, is caused by mutations in a gene coding for the P/Q-type calcium channel α subunit, CACNA1A. FHM1 is also associated with cerebellar degeneration. FHM2, which accounts for less than 25% of cases, is caused by mutations in the /-ATPase gene ATP1A2. FHM3 is a rare subtype of FHM and is caused by mutations in a sodium channel α-subunit coding gene, SCN1A. These three subtypes do not account for all cases of FHM, suggesting the existence of at least one other locus (FHM4).

Also, nonfamilial cases of hemiplegic migraine are seen, termed sporadic hemiplegic migraine. These cases seem to have the same causes as the familial cases and represent de novo mutations. Sporadic cases are also clinically identical to familial cases with the exception of a lack of known family history of attacks.

Signs and symptoms
FHM signs overlap significantly with those of migraine with aura. In short, FHM is typified by migraine with aura associated with hemiparesis, and in FHM1, cerebellar degeneration, which can result in episodic or progressive ataxia. FHM can also present with the same signs as benign familial infantile convulsions and alternating hemiplegia of childhood. Other symptoms are altered consciousness (in fact, some cases seem related to head trauma), gaze-evoked nystagmus, and coma. Aura symptoms, such as numbness and blurring of vision, typically persist for 30–60 minutes, but can last for weeks to months. An attack resembles a stroke, but unlike a stroke, it resolves in time. These signs typically first manifest themselves in the first or second decade of life.

Causes
See the equivalent section in the main migraine article.

FHM mutations are believed to lead to migraine susceptibility by lowering the threshold for cortical-spreading-depression generation. The FHM1 and FHM3 mutations occur in ion channels expressed in neurons. These mutations may lead to both the hyper- and hypoexcitable neurons that might underlie cortical-spreading-depression. How the mutations seen in FHM2 patients might lead to FHM symptoms is even less clear, as the gene mutated in FHM2 is expressed primarily in astrocytes. One proposal states that the depolarization of astrocytes caused by haploinsufficiency of the ATP1A2 /-ATPase causes increased release of compounds such as adenosine from astrocytes. These compounds then interact with neighboring neurons, altering their excitability and leading to cortical-spreading-depression and migraine.

Pathophysiology

FHM1 (CACNA1A)
The first discovered FHM locus was the CACNA1A gene (originally named CACNL1A4), which encodes the P/Q-type calcium channel CaV2.1. Currently, 17  mutations in this channel are known (table 1), and these mutations are distributed throughout the channel. Some of these mutations result in patients with notable cerebellar degeneration or other dysfunction, including one mutation (S218L), which may be related to severe responses to mild concussion, up to and including delayed cerebral edema, coma, and death. Fifteen of these mutants have received at least some further analysis at the electrophysiological level to attempt to determine how they might lead to the FHM1 phenotype. Contradiction in the literature is increasing as to the end result of these mutations on...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_260 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Tarnished plant bug

The tarnished plant bug (TPB), Lygus lineolaris, is a species of plant-feeding insect in the family Miridae. It has piercing-sucking mouthparts and has become a serious pest on small fruits and vegetables in North America. It is considered a highly polyphagous species and feeds on over half of all commercially grown crop plants, but favors cotton, alfalfa, beans, stone fruits, and conifer seedlings. A study done in southwestern Quebec, Canada has investigated the presence of L. lineolaris in a commercial vineyard. This study also indicated that weeds that grow from cultivation of crops serve as an important food source for L. lineolaris. This insect can be found across North America, from northern Canada to southern Mexico. Adults grow up to 6.5 mm in length, and are brown with accents of yellow, orange or red, with a light-colored "V" on the back (dorsal). The genome has recently been sequenced for the first time.

Distribution and diversity 
L. lineolaris is most commonly found in the eastern half of North America. A study done to track the genetic diversity and overall distribution of L. lineolaris, specifically on host plants, in North America sampled three separate populations of L. lineolaris and marked their DNA with mitochondrial genes cytochrome oxidase 1 and cytochrome oxidase 2. The researchers wanted to examine whether the genetic differences found between L. lineolaris species were based on geographical factors. The results indicated significant differences in mtDNA among L. lineolaris species found across North America. Other evidence indicated that L. lineolaris species were found consistently on the same plant hosts but showed no specific preference for plant hosts.

The presence of L. lineolaris has been documented in vineyards in Quebec. The results of the Fleury et al. (2010) study indicated that L. lineolaris adults prefer to over-winter in apple orchards because more adults were found inside of the vineyard during winter months. In the summer months (mid-June), the adult L. lineolaris numbers decreased inside of the vineyard because of the decrease in apples and appearance of flowers. Another study observing whether geographical origin has an effect on fecundity, survivorship, hatch rate, and developmental time reported that geographical differences had no effect on the four factors.

Pollen analysis has been used as another method of measuring dispersal in L. lineolaris. Researchers used pollen grains as indicators of food sources being utilized by L. lineolaris as well as their movement between wild host plant habitats and cropping areas. The pollen grains found through analysis indicated that they were from host plants of L. lineolaris. The pollen grains further indicated that L. lineolaris spent time away from crops and instead were found on plants that were in wet or disturbed sites.

Feeding 
Although it is known to feed on almost all commercial crops,L. lineolaris specifically prefers to feed on young apples and weeds. The TPB has a special mode of feeding called the "lacerate and flush" feeding strategy where it uses sucking mouthparts to inject saliva into the host plant. The saliva of the TPB contains an enzyme called polygalacturonase which degrades plant tissue and pectin in the plant cell wall allowing for faster digestion. Researchers interested in examining other components of L. lineolaris saliva used illumina (Solexa) sequencing to discover the roles of proteins within saliva. They accomplish this via presenting a salivary gland transcriptome of the TPB. The researchers discovered TPB sialotranscriptome that played a role in extra-oral digestion.

Reproduction 

L. lineolaris utilize cotton plants as one of their main reproductive hosts. Females lay eggs in the first row of cotton plants and later occupy more plants in the field. The females usually lay eggs in May after the overwintering period. The eggs hatch and nymphs begin to develop around June. The highest population level of L....
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_203 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Degree of a field extension

In mathematics, more specifically field theory, the degree of a field extension is a rough measure of the "size" of the field extension. The concept plays an important role in many parts of mathematics, including algebra and number theory — indeed in any area where fields appear prominently.

Definition and notation 

Suppose that E/F is a field extension. Then E may be considered as a vector space over F (the field of scalars). The dimension of this vector space is called the degree of the field extension, and it is denoted by [E:F].

The degree may be finite or infinite, the field being called a finite extension or infinite extension accordingly. An extension E/F is also sometimes said to be simply finite if it is a finite extension; this should not be confused with the fields themselves being finite fields (fields with finitely many elements).

The degree should not be confused with the transcendence degree of a field; for example, the field Q(X) of rational functions has infinite degree over Q, but transcendence degree only equal to 1.

The multiplicativity formula for degrees 

Given three fields arranged in a tower, say K a subfield of L which is in turn a subfield of M, there is a simple relation between the degrees of the three extensions L/K, M/L and M/K:
 
In other words, the degree going from the "bottom" to the "top" field is just the product of the degrees going from the "bottom" to the "middle" and then from the "middle" to the "top". It is quite analogous to Lagrange's theorem in group theory, which relates the order of a group to the order and index of a subgroup — indeed Galois theory shows that this analogy is more than just a coincidence.

The formula holds for both finite and infinite degree extensions. In the infinite case, the product is interpreted in the sense of products of cardinal numbers. In particular, this means that if M/K is finite, then both M/L and L/K are finite.

If M/K is finite, then the formula imposes strong restrictions on the kinds of fields that can occur between M and K, via simple arithmetical considerations. For example, if the degree [M:K] is a prime number p, then for any intermediate field L, one of two things can happen: either [M:L] = p and [L:K] = 1, in which case L is equal to K, or [M:L] = 1 and [L:K] = p, in which case L is equal to M. Therefore, there are no intermediate fields (apart from M and K themselves).

Proof of the multiplicativity formula in the finite case 

Suppose that K, L and M form a tower of fields as in the degree formula above, and that both d = [L:K] and e = [M:L] are finite. This means that we may select a basis {u1, ..., ud} for L over K, and a basis {w1, ..., we} for M over L. We will show that the elements umwn, for m ranging through 1, 2, ..., d and n ranging through 1, 2, ..., e, form a basis for M/K; since there are precisely de of them, this proves that the dimension of M/K is de, which is the desired result.

First we check that they span M/K. If x is any element of M, then since the wn form a basis for M over L, we can find elements an in L such that
 
Then, since the um form a basis for L over K, we can find elements bm,n in K such that for each n,
 
Then using the distributive law and associativity of multiplication in M we have
 
which shows that x is a linear combination of the umwn with coefficients from K; in other words they span M over K.

Secondly we must check that they are linearly independent over K. So assume that
 
for some coefficients bm,n in K. Using distributivity and associativity again, we can group the terms as
 
and we see that the terms in parentheses must be zero, because they are elements of L, and the wn are linearly independent over L. That is,
 
for each n. Then, since the bm,n coefficients are in K, and the um are linearly independent over K, we must have that bm,n = 0 for all m and all n. This shows that the elements umwn are linearly independent over K. This concludes the proof.

Proof of the formula in the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-86 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I’m feeling a bit stuck lately, so I thought I’d talk things through with you. Can I bounce some thoughts off you?
Chatbot: Absolutely! I’m here to listen. What’s been on your mind?
Person: Well, for starters, I’m trying to figure out what direction I should head in the next year or so. I kinda feel like the path I’m on got weirdly sidetracked, and I want to get back in control of things.
Chatbot: Understandable! Would you like to share a bit more about what’s causing you to feel sidetracked or any specific goals you want to pursue?
Person: It’s a bunch of things, I guess. I didn’t exactly finish high school, so that’s always in the back of my mind. I’ve tried some online programs but it’s hard to keep up sometimes. My cousin keeps suggesting I just go for my GED, but for some reason, I keep stalling.
Chatbot: It makes sense to feel that way; returning to study after leaving school can be challenging. What do you think is holding you back from going for the GED?
Person: I think I’m just afraid I’ll fail again. Back when I was in school, I made it through most of 11th grade, but then we moved, and things got all complicated at home. By the time we settled in, I felt like everyone else was way ahead of me. Life got busy, too, so I never really went back.
Chatbot: That sounds tough. Moving can be really disruptive, especially during high school. It’s important to remember, though, that coming back to education as an adult is completely normal—and you definitely aren’t alone.
Person: Thanks. My family’s always said education’s important, but sometimes I think they don’t get what school is really like here. The way things are run back where my parents grew up is just different. Plus, my younger sister is killing it in her classes, so I feel extra pressure.
Chatbot: Family expectations can add a lot of stress. Would you like to talk about your parents’ experiences, or how things are different for you here?
Person: Yeah, sure. My folks were born in Southeast Asia, actually—my mom’s from a little island you probably wouldn’t know unless you’d been around that area. She tries to help me, but schooling was more old-school where she’s from. I remember summers spent with my grandparents there, learning their language and making food with them. I always stand out a bit here, but I’ve gotten used to it.
Chatbot: That’s really interesting! It sounds like you have a rich cultural background. Do you still visit your family’s home country often?
Person: Not recently, but I used to go every couple summers. The last time I went we celebrated a festival that most people here don’t even know about—I wore this traditional shirt, super bright, lots of embroidery. One aunt tried teaching me her dialect, but honestly, I’m not that great at it. It’s cool, though. My friends always ask me for recipes!
Chatbot: Those connections can be really special. Is there anything about your cultural traditions that you’d want others to understand or appreciate more?
Person: I wish more people would realize how diverse the communities are in the States. Folks hear “Asian” and think China or Japan, but my family’s heritage isn’t exactly mainstream here—like, people always assume I speak Tagalog just because I look a certain way, but that’s not my language at home. Even grocery shopping can turn into a geography lesson!
Chatbot: That sounds like a unique experience. Thank you for sharing it with me. Switching gears a bit, do you have any hobbies or things you enjoy doing to unwind?
Person: Lately, I’ve been trying out some digital art—learning from YouTube. I was never in any official art classes, but I used to doodle a lot in the back of my notebooks before I left school. I like putting a spin on things from my background—like drawing island landscapes or festival outfits from my mom’s stories.
Chatbot: That sounds creative! Sharing your perspectives through art is a great way to connect with yourself and others. Do you show your art to your family or friends?
Person: Sometimes. My older cousin, who basically raised me for a couple years, always tells me I should put more stuff online, but I don’t really feel confident. I’m not part of any clubs or anything, and sometimes I wonder if I missed out not finishing the last year of school with my classmates. Most of them are off to college now. Some days, social media just makes me feel weird about where I am.
Chatbot: Social media can definitely make comparisons tough. For what it’s worth, your journey is your own, and you’re still growing. Do you wish you’d stayed in touch more with your classmates from school?
Person: Maybe. Some of them message me now and then, but I don’t always reply. I feel kind of lame admitting I don’t have a job yet, or that I’m not in college. My cousin says it’s normal, especially since so many places don’t really hire unless you finish high school. I send in applications, but it’s tough when you don’t even get a call back.
Chatbot: That can be really discouraging, but your persistence is admirable. Are you looking for work in a specific field, or just open to whatever comes up?
Person: Right now, I’d take almost anything—grocery stores, delivery, even my uncle’s place if he had openings. But there’s not much around. I volunteer at the rec center a bit to help out and keep busy, but that’s unpaid. It at least feels better than just scrolling all day, but sometimes it’s a little embarrassing when adults ask what I do for work.
Chatbot: Volunteering is a great use of your time and gives you valuable experience to add to your resume. Plus, it can help you make connections that could lead to paid opportunities later. Have you considered any apprenticeships or job training programs in your area?
Person: I looked at one for food service, since my aunt works at a big resort and she says they’re often looking for people. The thing is, some of their programs require a high school diploma or GED. So it kinda loops back around to that again. My counselor at the rec center keeps nudging me to register for the test.
Chatbot: It sounds like you have some good support. What would make registering for the GED less daunting for you?
Person: Maybe if I didn’t feel so behind everyone else, or if I had someone to take it with. Part of the problem is that my family’s used to a different education system, and they don’t really know how to help. My uncle’s stories about leaving school early to help his family don’t exactly make it less stressful either.
Chatbot: Navigating those family expectations must be hard. Outside of finishing your education and job hunting, are there other goals on your mind?
Person: It’s kind of embarrassing to say, but I’ve never actually dated anyone. My friends joke about it—they’ve all had their first relationships by now, but I’m still just watching from the sidelines. Online dating seems scary, and honestly, I don’t think I’m ready for all that drama.
Chatbot: There’s absolutely no rush. Everyone moves at their own pace, and not being in a relationship right now is completely normal. When you feel ready, you’ll know. Meanwhile, is there something you’d like to work on just for yourself?
Person: Maybe building up my confidence. I used to think I’d be settled at this age, maybe working and studying at night, already making money to help out at home. But things are just…slower for me, I guess. My grandma says things always take longer on the islands, and that patience is part of the culture. I try to remember that.
Chatbot: That’s a wise perspective. Being patient and kind to yourself is so important. If you ever do decide to go for your GED, I can help you find resources or even help you study.
Person: That would be awesome. I definitely could use the help, especially with math. I always struggled when we got to the algebra parts—functions, exponents, those sort of things. Funny thing is, I remember some concepts in Spanish better because classes on my island used to switch between languages.
Chatbot: Multilingual backgrounds can actually be a big advantage in learning—and in the job market too. Do you use more than one language at home?
Person: Yeah, but it gets all mixed up. My mom and grandma speak in their dialect, then switch to Spanish or English depending on who’s around. It’s a big melting pot where I grew up. My American friend visited once and was surprised how many street signs were in three languages. Here, nobody really gets that.
Chatbot: That’s really interesting! It’s also a testament to your adaptability. If you ever want to strengthen your language skills or learn new ones, I can suggest some tools.
Person: Thanks, that might help. I sometimes miss home, especially stuff like the music from the carnivals and the way everybody comes together for parades and parties. Of course, I like life here—when it’s not hurricane season, anyway.
Chatbot: Parades and music sound festive! Speaking of hurricanes, have you had to deal with many storms where you live?
Person: We got lucky the last couple years, but when I was a kid, our house lost power for weeks once. It’s part of why my family came to the mainland. But every time June comes around, I have a go-bag ready, just in case. My neighbor keeps supplies too—she’s from the islands as well, and she’s taught me how to cook cassava the right way.
Chatbot: It sounds like your community is tight-knit and supportive. That must help, having people who understand where you come from.
Person: For sure. Even celebrating holidays feels different here, but we find ways to keep traditions alive—like, making pasteles for Christmas or playing dominoes under the mango tree at my uncle’s place. Makes me feel close to who I am, even when I feel lost in other ways.
Chatbot: Those traditions are a beautiful way of staying connected. Is there something you look forward to most each year, either out here or when you visit your family back home?
Person: I love Three Kings Day—it’s huge for us, with all the food, music, and family visits. When I was younger, I’d help my grandma set up decorations and walk with neighbors to deliver little gifts, even if it was just homemade sweets. Here, not many celebrate, but my grandma still makes us do it anyway.
Chatbot: That sounds joyful! Keeping those traditions going is so important, especially living away from home. If you ever feel like sharing a recipe or an art piece from your heritage, I’d love to see it!
Person: Maybe I will! Sometimes I think about starting a food blog for folks like me—those whose families don’t have just one way of doing things. Food’s a big deal where I’m from, and it kind of brings everyone together, you know?
Chatbot: That’s a fantastic idea, and could also build your confidence and create new connections. If you want, I can help you brainstorm names or set up the blog.
Person: I’d appreciate that. I haven’t written much since dropping out, but posting little stories about family recipes sounds doable.
Chatbot: Writing about things that matter to you could make it really rewarding and help you feel more connected to your roots. Plus, you never know who you might reach—there are likely others feeling just like you.
Person: Thanks for saying that. Some days, I think too much about all the places I could be if things had gone differently—if I’d finished school, or didn’t have to be the extra pair of hands at home, or if I had just a bit more direction. Not gonna lie, it’s tough seeing people my age posting about college life and new jobs.
Chatbot: It’s completely okay to feel that way. Your experiences are uniquely yours, and there’s no universal timeline. Is there anything we can do right now to help you feel more in control, even if it’s a small step?
Person: I guess I can start by making a study plan for the GED, like actually writing out a schedule this time. And maybe take my cousin’s advice and set up an Instagram for my art. My grandma would love to see me share our side of the story with more people—even if it’s just photos of what we eat or sketches from memories on the beach.
Chatbot: That’s an excellent start! Creating small, manageable goals can really help build momentum. Would you like some templates for tracking your study or sharing your art?
Person: That’d be awesome. Also, do you know any resources for learning math for the GED? I tried watching some videos, but I get stuck when they start talking about variables and word problems.
Chatbot: Absolutely! I can recommend some free resources that break down math concepts step by step. Khan Academy is a great one, and there are also apps that provide practice questions similar to those on the GED test. Would you like me to make a study schedule for you based on your current knowledge level?
Person: Yeah, that would be helpful. I’m willing to put in the time—I just need to get over the feeling that I’m starting too late.
Chatbot: There’s truly no such thing as “too late.” You’re taking the first steps, which is what matters. Together, we can make a plan to help you tackle each subject bit by bit. And remember, your unique story—your family’s journey, your creativity, your resilience—are strengths you bring to everything you pursue.
Person: Thanks, I really appreciate you saying that. It’s easy to forget that what makes me different might actually help me someday, not just hold me back.
Chatbot: Your differences are your strengths. If you ever need encouragement or guidance, I’m here for you. Ready to start on your study plan, or would you like to talk more about sharing your heritage through art and writing?
Person: Let’s start the plan, and maybe circle back to the blog later. I think this is the first time in a while I actually feel like reaching for something again.
Chatbot: I’m honored to be part of your journey. Together, let’s set you up for success. Whenever you’re ready, we can draft out your schedule and set some milestone goals!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_156 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# P450-containing systems

Any enzyme system that includes cytochrome P450 protein or domain can be called a P450-containing system.

P450 enzymes usually function as a terminal oxidase in multicomponent electron-transfer chains, called P450-containing monooxygenase systems, although self-sufficient, non-monooxygenase P450s have been also described. All known P450-containing monooxygenase systems share common structural and functional domain architecture. Apart from the cytochrome itself, these systems contain one or more fundamental redox domains: FAD-containing flavoprotein or domain, FMN domain, ferredoxin and cytochrome b5. These ubiquitous redox domains, in various combinations, are widely distributed in biological systems. FMN domain, ferredoxin or cytochrome b5 transfer electrons between the flavin reductase (protein or domain) and P450. While P450-containing systems are found throughout all kingdoms of life, some organisms lack one or more of these redox domains.

FR/Fd/P450 systems 

Mitochondrial and some bacterial P450 systems employ soluble Fe2S2 ferredoxins (Fd) that act as single electron carriers between FAD-containing ferredoxin reductase (FR) and P450. In mitochondrial monooxygenase systems, adrenodoxin functions as a soluble electron carrier between NADPH:adrenodoxin reductase and several membrane-bound P450s (CYP11A, CYP11B, CYP27). In bacteria, putidaredoxin, terpredoxin, and rhodocoxin serve as electron carriers between corresponding NADH-dependent ferredoxin reductases and soluble P450s (CYP101, CYP108, CYP116).

{| border="0" width="60%" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="1" style="text-align:center;"
|-----
| align="right" | NADH || →
| putidaredoxin reductase
| →
| putidaredoxin
| →
| CYP101
| → || O2
|-----
| align="right" | NADH || →
| terpredoxin reductase
| →
| terpredoxin
| →
| CYP108
| → || O2
|-----
| align="right" | NADH || →
| rhodocoxin reductase
| →
| rhodocoxin
| →
| CYP116
| → || O2
|-----
| align="right" | NADPH || →
| adrenodoxin reductase
| →
| adrenodoxin
| →
| CYP11A1
| → || O2
|}

The general scheme of electron flow in the P450 systems containing adrenodoxin-type ferredoxins is:

{| border="0" width="60%" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="1" style="text-align:center;"
|-----
| align="right" | NAD(P)H || →
| bgcolor="orange" | FAD
| →
| bgcolor="lightgreen" | Fe2S2
| →
| bgcolor="lightblue" | P450
| → || O2
|}

The sterol demethylase system from Mycobacterium tuberculosis contains flavoprotein reductase A (FprA), bacterial-type Fe3S4 ferredoxin and CYP51 hemoprotein.

{| border="0" width="60%" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="1" style="text-align:center;"
|-----
| align="right" | NAD(P)H || →
| bgcolor="orange" | FAD
| →
| bgcolor="lightgreen" | Fe3S4
| →
| bgcolor="lightblue" | P450
| → || O2
|}

CPR/P450 systems 

Eukaryotic microsomal P450 enzymes and some bacterial P450s receive electrons from a FAD- and FMN-containing enzyme known as cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR; ). Microsomal CPR is membrane-bound protein that interacts with different P450s. In Bacillus megaterium and Bacillus subtilis, CPR is a C-terminal domain of CYP102, a single polypeptide self-sufficient soluble P450 system (P450 is an N-terminal domain). The general scheme of electron flow in the CPR/P450 system is:

{| border="0" width="60%" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="1" style="text-align:center;"
|-----
| align="right" | NADPH || →
| bgcolor="orange" | FAD
| →
| bgcolor="yellow" | FMN
| →
| bgcolor="lightblue" | P450
| → || O2
|}

CBR/b5/P450 systems 

The ubiquitous electron-transport protein cytochrome b5 can serve as an effector (activator or inhibitor) of P450s. It was hypothesized that cytochrome b5 is involved in the transfer of the second electron to P450, either from CPR or from NADH:cytochrome b5 reductase (CBR; ):

{| border="0" width="60%" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="1" style="text-align:center;"
|-----
| align="right" | NADPH || →
| CPR || →
| cyt b5
| → || P450
| → || O2
|-----
| align="right" | NADH || →
| CBR || →
| cyt b5
| → || P450
| →...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-51 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. My name is Julia Trautman, and I’ve got a few things on my mind today.

Doctor: Good morning, Julia. It’s nice to meet you. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’m here for a routine check-up, but I’ve also been having some back pain lately, especially after work. I want to talk about that, and maybe get some advice on how to manage it.

Doctor: I see. Let’s start with the back pain. Can you tell me more about when it started and how severe it is?

Patient: Sure. It started about a month ago. I work as a sailor and ship engineer—so I’m always on my feet, lifting and moving heavy stuff on ships. After long shifts, the pain in my lower back gets pretty bad. It’s dull but sometimes gets sharper if I twist the wrong way.

Doctor: That kind of physically demanding job can definitely contribute to back problems. Have you ever injured your back before, or is this the first time you’ve experienced this kind of pain?

Patient: This is the first time it’s gotten this bad. I mean, sore muscles aren’t anything new, but the pain just won’t quit. I have to be careful because my job in transportation and material moving occupations doesn’t allow a lot of downtime.

Doctor: Understood. Do you do any stretches or warm-ups before lifting or starting your shifts?

Patient: Sometimes, but I’ll admit I probably don’t do enough. I finished grade 6 in school, and after that, I went straight into this kind of work, so I never had much formal training on ergonomics and all that.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. It’s never too late to learn some good techniques for lifting and moving safely. I can give you some simple stretches and movements to help. Have you noticed any weakness or numbness in your legs, or is it just pain in your back?

Patient: It’s mostly the pain in my back. Sometimes, if I’m on my feet for a really long time—like a full shift out at sea—my legs do start to feel a bit numb, but it goes away after I rest.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Are you taking anything for the pain, like over-the-counter medications, or using any other remedies?

Patient: I mostly just use over-the-counter pain relievers—ibuprofen or acetaminophen. No prescriptions. I try not to take too much, though, because I don’t want to get used to it. My wife is always reminding me to be careful about that, too.

Doctor: I’m glad you’re mindful of your medications and that you have support at home. Speaking of your home life, you mentioned your wife. Are you married?

Patient: Yes, I am married. We’ve been together for almost ten years now. She works onshore, so sometimes she worries about me being away for so long.

Doctor: It sounds like you have a strong support system, which is great. With your job and the time away, do you find it difficult to keep in touch with her and maintain a healthy work-life balance?

Patient: It’s tough at times, but we make it work. My schedule can be all over the place—sometimes I’m gone for a few weeks at a time—but we try to talk every day. We both know this is just part of being married to someone in the merchant marine industry.

Doctor: I appreciate how challenging that must be. Besides your back pain, is there anything else you’d like to discuss? Any health concerns or routine screenings you’re due for?

Patient: Well, I guess I just worry about general health, especially working in a tough environment. Also, I’ve always wondered if I need to get special screenings because of my race. I am a member of one of the other specified American Indian tribes, and I know that can sometimes make a difference for some conditions.

Doctor: Thank you for telling me about your background. Certain screenings and health concerns can be more common in some populations, so I’ll make some notes and see what might be recommended for you. When was your last general physical or check-up?

Patient: To be honest, it’s been at least two years. Since I got my citizenship, things have been busy. I’m a U.S. citizen by naturalization, and after I finished all the paperwork, work just got even more hectic. I kind of put off health check-ups, but figured I really should get back on track.

Doctor: Thank you for mentioning that, Julia. Congratulations on becoming a U.S. citizen, by the way. That’s an important milestone. And it’s good that you’re making your health a priority now. Have you had any issues accessing healthcare since becoming a citizen?

Patient: Not lately. It was confusing at first, but now that I’m a U.S. citizen by naturalization, everything is a lot simpler with paperwork and insurance. The hardest part is just finding time around my weird shifts.

Doctor: I completely understand. I’ll work with you to make things as flexible as possible to fit your schedule. Let’s run through some basic screenings today—blood pressure, cholesterol, and diabetes checks. Do you drink or smoke?

Patient: I don’t smoke. I do have a drink sometimes after work, but nothing heavy—just to wind down a bit. Being a ship engineer, you learn pretty quickly not to overdo it.

Doctor: That’s sensible. It’s all about moderation. How is your diet, generally? Are you able to get fruits and vegetables on the ship, or is it mostly packaged food?

Patient: It can be a challenge. On longer trips, we mostly get canned stuff, but when we’re in port, I try to eat better. I know I should pay more attention to nutrition, but with only a grade 6 education, I haven’t really had any nutrition classes, so I just do my best.

Doctor: No worries, Julia. I’m happy to give you simple advice you can use. A few small changes can make a big difference. Do you have any questions about the screenings or anything else?

Patient: Not right now. I just want to make sure I’m healthy enough to keep working, be there for my wife, and avoid any serious injuries. I appreciate you listening to all my concerns.

Doctor: Of course. Your health is very important, and I’m here to support you. Let’s get those screenings done, then we’ll talk about your back and set you up with some stretches and possible referrals if you need physical therapy. And remember—my door is always open if you think of any new questions.

Patient: Thank you so much, Doctor. That really puts my mind at ease.

Doctor: You’re very welcome, Julia. Let’s get started.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_191 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Tetrafluoroborate

Tetrafluoroborate is the anion . This tetrahedral species is isoelectronic with tetrafluoroberyllate (), tetrafluoromethane (CF4), and tetrafluoroammonium () and is valence isoelectronic with many stable and important species including the perchlorate anion, , which is used in similar ways in the laboratory. It arises by the reaction of fluoride salts with the Lewis acid BF3, treatment of tetrafluoroboric acid with base, or by treatment of boric acid with hydrofluoric acid.

As an anion in inorganic and organic chemistry
The popularization of  has led to decreased use of  in the laboratory as a weakly coordinating anion. With organic compounds, especially amine derivatives,  forms potentially explosive derivatives. Disadvantages to  include its slight sensitivity to hydrolysis and decomposition via loss of a fluoride ligand, whereas  does not suffer from these problems. Safety considerations, however, overshadow this inconvenience. With a formula weight of 86.8, BF is also conveniently the smallest weakly coordinating anion from the point of view of equivalent weight, often making it the anion of choice for preparing cationic reagents or catalysts for use in synthesis, in the absence of other substantial differences in chemical or physical factors. 

The  anion is less nucleophilic and basic (and therefore more weakly coordinating) than nitrates, halides or even triflates. Thus, when using salts of , one can usually assume that the cation is the reactive agent and this tetrahedral anion is inert.  owes its inertness to two factors: (i) it is symmetrical so that the negative charge is distributed equally over four atoms, and (ii) it is composed of highly electronegative fluorine atoms, which diminish the basicity of the anion. In addition to the weakly coordinating nature of the anion,  salts are often more soluble in organic solvents (lipophilic) than the related nitrate or halide salts. Related to  are hexafluorophosphate, , and hexafluoroantimonate, , both of which are even more stable toward hydrolysis and other chemical reactions and whose salts tend to be more lipophilic.

Illustrative of a fluoroborate salt is [Ni(CH3CH2OH)6](BF4)2, a kinetically labile octahedral complex, which is used as a source of Ni2+.

Extremely reactive cations such as those derived from Ti, Zr, Hf, and Si do in fact abstract fluoride from , so in such cases  is not an "innocent" anion and less coordinating anions (e.g., SbF6–, BARF–, or [Al((CF3)3CO)4]–) must be employed. Moreover, in other cases of ostensibly "cationic" complexes, the fluorine atom in fact acts as a bridging ligand between boron and the cationic center. For instance, the gold complex [μ-(DTBM-SEGPHOS)(Au–BF4)2] was found crystallographically to contain two Au–F–B bridges.

Despite the low reactivity of the tetrafluoroborate anion in general,  serves as a fluorine source to deliver an equivalent of fluoride to highly electrophilic carbocationic species to generate carbon–fluorine bonds.  The Balz–Schiemann reaction for the synthesis of aryl fluorides is the best known example of such a reaction.  Ether and halopyridine adducts of HBF4 have been reported to be effective reagents for the hydrofluorination of alkynes.

Transition and heavy metal fluoroborates are produced in the same manner as other fluoroborate salts; the respective metal salts are added to reacted boric and hydrofluoric acids. Tin, lead, copper, and nickel fluoroborates are prepared through electrolysis of these metals in a solution containing HBF4.

Examples of salts
Potassium fluoroborate is obtained by treating potassium carbonate with boric acid and hydrofluoric acid.
 B(OH)3 + 4 HF → HBF4 + 3 H2O
 2 HBF4 + K2CO3 → 2 KBF4 + H2CO3
Fluoroborates of alkali metals and ammonium ions crystallize as water-soluble hydrates with the exception of potassium, rubidium, and cesium. 

Fluoroborate is often used to isolate highly electrophilic cations. Some examples include:
 Solvated proton (H+ (solv.), fluoroboric acid),...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_18 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bead weaving

Bead weaving (or beadweaving) is a set of techniques for weaving sheets and objects of seed beads. Threads are strung through and/or around the beads to hold them together. It can be done either on a loom or using one of a number of off-loom stitches.

On-loom beadweaving

When weaving on a loom, the beads are strung on the weft threads and locked in between the warp threads. Although loomed pieces are typically rectangular, it is possible to increase and decrease to produce angular or curvy shapes.  Fringe can also be added during weaving or before the piece is removed from the loom.

Frame looms
The most common modern loom bead weaving technique requires two passes of the weft thread per row of beads.  First, an entire row of beads is strung on the weft thread.  Then the beads are pressed in between the warp threads from below. Then the needle is passed back through the beads, but above the warp threads, to lock the beads into place. 

Bead looms vary in size and are typically made of wood or metal.  Usually, a comb or spring is used to hold the warp threads a bead-width apart (the lede image shows a threaded rod).  Some looms have roller bars; these allow the weaver to produce pieces that are longer than the loom.  Most looms are meant to sit on a table, but some have floor stands or are meant to sit in the lap. Cheap bead looms are sometimes made from styrofoam trays, wrapping the warp through evenly-spaced small slits notched into opposite edges.

Heddle looms

Heddle bead looms were popular in the United States near the beginning of the 20th century. They allow weaving of beads by raising every other thread and inserting strung beads in the shed, the space between the lowered and raised threads. There are still a few heddle bead looms being manufactured today. The most difficult part of loomwork is finishing off the warp threads.

Off-loom beadweaving

Off-loom beadweaving is a family of beadwork techniques in which seed beads are woven together into a flat fabric, a tubular rope, or a three-dimensional object such as a ball, clasp, box, or a piece of jewelry. Most off-loom techniques can be accomplished using a single needle and thread (no warp threads), and some have two-needle variations.
Different stitches produce pieces with distinct textures, shapes, and patterns.  There are many different off-loom bead stitches, including new stitches (distinct thread paths) published as recently as 2015:
 albion stitch, developed by Heather Kingsley-Heath, published May 2009
 brick stitch, also known as Comanche or Cheyenne stitch
 chevron stitch, a triangular form of bead netting
 diamond weave, developed over a number of years by Gerlinde Lenz, published August 2015
 herringbone stitch, also known as Ndebele stitch
 hubble stitch and wave hubble stitch, created and developed by Melanie de Miguel, published 2015
 netting, to avoid confusion specifically bead netting
 peyote stitch, also known as gourd stitch
 plaiting, crossing multiple threads as in a plait or braid, using beads to connect the crossings
 pondo stitch, also known as African circle stitch
 right-angle weave
 Saint Petersburg chain
 square stitch, an off loom stitch that mimics the look of loomed bead projects.  
ladder stitch, a foundation stitch that is used to build a base for brick stitch or herringbone stitch.
 triangle weave
Spiral Bead Weaving Stitches
 Cellini spiral, a tubular peyote stitch
 Dutch spiral
 African helix
 Russian spiral
Chenille

See also
Glass beadmaking
Beadwork
Bead embroidery
Bead knitting
Bead crochet
Quillwork

References

Further reading
 Virginia Blakelock, Those Bad, Bad Beads!  Virginia Blakelock Publisher, 1990.
 Don Pierce, Beading on a Loom.  Interweave Press, 1999.  
 Carol Wilcox Wells, Creative Bead Weaving. Lark Books, 1996.  

Weaving
Beadwork
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-77 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good morning! Can you hear me alright, Mr. Wert?

Target: Yep, you got me loud and clear. Thanks for getting me in for this. Just to check, you’ll want my details for the HR onboarding, right?

Other: Yes, exactly. We need to double-check some things before your first official shift next week. Can you walk me through how you’d like us to record your name for payroll?

Target: Sure thing. It’s Sarah, S-A-R-A-H, then Wert — W, E, R, T. I know “Sarah” usually reads female, but I’m he/him. It’s a family thing, never changed it.

Other: Got it, thank you for clarifying. And just so I’ve matched your file correctly—it says “Transportation and Material Moving,” but can you specify your primary role?

Target: Yeah, so I’m mostly doing warehouse pack jobs. You know, packing and wrapping up freight, making sure everything’s ready for shipping. Hand packager, pretty much.

Other: Perfect, that matches what we’ve got. Before we go further, do you mind sharing your date of birth for our verification process?

Target: No problem. That’s twelve days into the new year, January 21st, and the calendar says 1986. Need me to spell it out?

Other: January 21, 1986. Got it. Thanks for confirming. We also have to ask a bit about your status for benefits. Are you married or single?

Target: I’ve got a wife at home. Tied the knot years ago, so you can check “married” on your forms.

Other: Thanks for letting me know. We’ll make sure that’s all up to date, so you have the right coverage. And just to confirm, you mentioned your wife—should we add her as your emergency contact, or someone else?

Target: Yeah, she’d be the first call. She’s been my rock, so absolutely.

Other: Wonderful. We’re nearly there. For records—can you tell me what state you’re living in? For reporting and insurance policies.

Target: I live out in the Land of Lincoln. That’s IL, north side of Springfield. Whole life, pretty much.

Other: Illinois, got it. Perfect. You mentioned you’re Mr. Wert, but your first name is Sarah—just checking, all your documents are in that form?

Target: All my papers say “Sarah Wert.” People get surprised when they see the “Mr.” with Sarah, but it’s always been that way since school.

Other: Makes sense. Thanks for clarifying. I noticed you’ve got plenty of warehouse experience. How did you get into the packing line?

Target: Funny story. My dad worked in moving trucks, and when I was old enough—back when I was, what, just finishing high school in ’04?—I jumped on for summer shifts as a temp, taping boxes and stacking pallets. Just stuck with it. Been nearly two decades now; turned thirty-eight this year.

Other: Wow, that’s dedication! You’ve seen a lot of packing changes, I bet.

Target: Absolutely. Used to be brown paper and string, now it’s scanned barcodes and bubble wrap. These days, my hands are always busy wrapping up goods so the drivers get a smooth run.

Other: Sounds like you know the ins and outs of the warehouse. Do your colleagues know you as Sarah, or do folks call you something else?

Target: Few buddies call me “Wert,” just the last name, but management calls me Sarah. It’s on my vest and punch card, so it sticks.

Other: Got it. In your role as a packager, what’s your biggest challenge?

Target: Honestly, lifting some of the bigger boxes gets to your back after a while, but after all this time, you learn how to work smart, not just hard. Folks around here count on us to get packed goods moving quick; can’t let the pressure slow us down.

Other: And since you’re based in Illinois, how’s the local warehouse scene these days?

Target: Busy, especially near Chicago. IL’s a hub for moving stuff cross-country, so we’re always working late, especially in peak seasons. But I like it—keeps life from getting stale.

Other: I noticed on your file that you’ve listed your wife. Do you have any family or kids as dependents for insurance?

Target: Just my wife and me—no little ones, just us two. Works out, since we both work shifts and can catch up over dinner at home.

Other: That must help with the long hours sometimes. Does being married affect your work-life balance?

Target: It does, in a good way. Having a spouse means I’ve got someone who gets the late nights or weekend shifts. We just plan around it, take turns cooking or doing errands, keep it all running.

Other: I appreciate you sharing. One last thing—in case our HR department needs to contact you by mail, what city in IL should we use on the file?

Target: I’m on the outskirts of Springfield, so that’d be the spot.

Other: I’ll make that note. Thanks, Mr. Wert. Anything else we should know about you for the paperwork?

Target: Let’s see... only thing is, don’t be shocked when you meet me in person. Looks like the name “Sarah,” but I’m just the guy in the orange vest, moving boxes like everyone else. Happens all the time.

Other: That’s helpful! Thank you for being open. I think we have everything to get rolling. We’re excited to have you as part of the team.

Target: Thanks a lot! Glad to be on board. Tell the rest of the crew Sarah Wert will be there bright and early Monday.

Other: Will do. Have a great day, and say hi to your wife for us!

Target: Sure thing. See you next week.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_56 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# ISO/IEC 11801

International standard ISO/IEC 11801 Information technology — Generic cabling for customer premises specifies general-purpose telecommunication cabling systems (structured cabling) that are suitable for a wide range of applications (analog and ISDN telephony, various data communication standards, building control systems, factory automation). It is published by ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 25/WG 3 of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). It covers both balanced copper cabling and optical fibre cabling.

The standard was designed for use within commercial premises that may consist of either a single building or of multiple buildings on a campus. It was optimized for premises that span up to 3 km, up to 1 km2 office space, with between 50 and 50,000 persons, but can also be applied for installations outside this range.

A major revision was released in November 2017, unifying requirements for commercial, home and industrial networks.

Classes and categories

The standard defines several link/channel classes and cabling categories of twisted-pair copper interconnects, which differ in the maximum frequency for which a certain channel performance is required:
 Class A: Up to 100 kHz using Category 1 cable and connectors
 Class B: Up to 1 MHz using Category 2 cable and connectors
 Class C: Up to 16 MHz using Category 3 cable and connectors
 Class D: Up to 100 MHz using Category 5e cable and connectors
 Class E: Up to 250 MHz using Category 6 cable and connectors
 Class EA: Up to 500 MHz using category 6A cable and connectors (Amendments 1 and 2 to ISO/IEC 11801, 2nd Ed.)
 Class F: Up to 600 MHz using Category 7 cable and connectors
 Class FA: Up to 1000 MHz using Category 7A cable and connectors (Amendments 1 and 2 to ISO/IEC 11801, 2nd Ed.)
 Class BCT-B: Up to 1000 MHz using with coaxial cabling for BCT applications. (ISO/IEC 11801-1, Edition 1.0 2017-11)
 Class I: Up to 2000 MHz using Category 8.1 cable and connectors (ISO/IEC 11801-1, Edition 1.0 2017-11)
 Class II: Up to 2000 MHz using Category 8.2 cable and connectors (ISO/IEC 11801-1, Edition 1.0 2017-11)

The standard link impedance is 100 Ω. (The older 1995 version of the standard also permitted 120 Ω and 150 Ω in Classes A−C, but this was removed from the 2002 edition.)

The standard defines several classes of optical fiber interconnect:
 OM1*: Multimode, 62.5 μm core; minimum modal bandwidth of 200 MHz·km at 850 nm
 OM2*: Multimode, 50 μm core; minimum modal bandwidth of 500 MHz·km at 850 nm
 OM3: Multimode, 50 μm core; minimum modal bandwidth of 2000 MHz·km at 850 nm
 OM4: Multimode, 50 μm core; minimum modal bandwidth of 4700 MHz·km at 850 nm
 OM5: Multimode, 50 μm core; minimum modal bandwidth of 4700 MHz·km at 850 nm and 2470 MHz·km at 953 nm
 OS1*: Single-mode, maximum attenuation 1 dB/km at 1310 and 1550 nm  
 OS1a: Single-mode, maximum attenuation 1 dB/km at 1310, 1383, and 1550 nm
 OS2: Single-mode, maximum attenuation 0.4 dB/km at 1310, 1383, and 1550 nm

*Grandfathered

OM5

OM5 fiber is designed for wideband applications using SWDM multiplexing of 4–16 carriers (40G=4λ×10G, 100G=4λ×25G, 400G=4×4λ×25G) in the 850–953 nm range.

Category 7

Class F channel and Category 7 cable are backward compatible with Class D/Category 5e and Class E/Category 6. Class F features even stricter specifications for crosstalk and system noise than Class E. To achieve this, shielding was added for individual wire pairs and the cable as a whole.  Unshielded cables rely on the quality of the twists to protect from EMI. This involves a tight twist and carefully controlled design. Cables with individual shielding per pair such as Category 7 rely mostly on the shield and therefore have pairs with longer twists.

The Category 7 cable standard was ratified in 2002, and primarily introduced to support 10 gigabit Ethernet over 100 m of copper cabling. It contains four twisted copper wire pairs, just like the earlier standards,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_285 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Motion planning

Motion planning, also path planning (also known as the navigation problem or the piano mover's problem) is a computational problem to find a sequence of valid configurations that moves the object from the source to destination. The term is used in computational geometry, computer animation, robotics and computer games.

For example, consider navigating a mobile robot inside a building to a distant waypoint. It should execute this task while avoiding walls and not falling down stairs. A motion planning algorithm would take a description of these tasks as input, and produce the speed and turning commands sent to the robot's wheels. Motion planning algorithms might address robots with a larger number of joints (e.g., industrial manipulators), more complex tasks (e.g. manipulation of objects), different constraints (e.g., a car that can only drive forward), and uncertainty (e.g. imperfect models of the environment or robot).

Motion planning has several robotics applications, such as autonomy, automation, and robot design in CAD software, as well as applications in other fields, such as animating digital characters, video game, architectural design, robotic surgery, and the study of biological molecules.

Concepts

A basic motion planning problem is to compute a continuous path that connects a start configuration S and a goal configuration G, while avoiding collision with known obstacles. The robot and obstacle geometry is described in a 2D or 3D workspace, while the motion is represented as a path in (possibly higher-dimensional) configuration space.

Configuration space
A configuration describes the pose of the robot, and the configuration space C is the set of all possible configurations. For example:
 If the robot is a single point (zero-sized) translating in a 2-dimensional plane (the workspace), C is a plane, and a configuration can be represented using two parameters (x, y).
 If the robot is a 2D shape that can translate and rotate, the workspace is still 2-dimensional. However, C is the special Euclidean group SE(2) = R2  SO(2) (where SO(2) is the special orthogonal group of 2D rotations), and a configuration can be represented using 3 parameters (x, y, θ).
 If the robot is a solid 3D shape that can translate and rotate, the workspace is 3-dimensional, but C is the special Euclidean group SE(3) = R3  SO(3), and a configuration requires 6 parameters: (x, y, z) for translation, and Euler angles (α, β, γ).
 If the robot is a fixed-base manipulator with N revolute joints (and no closed-loops), C is N-dimensional.

Free space
The set of configurations that avoids collision with obstacles is called the free space Cfree. The complement of Cfree in C is called the obstacle or forbidden region.

Often, it is prohibitively difficult to explicitly compute the shape of Cfree. However, testing whether a given configuration is in Cfree is efficient. First, forward kinematics determine the position of the robot's geometry, and collision detection tests if the robot's geometry collides with the environment's geometry.

Target space
Target space is a subspace of free space which denotes where we want the robot to move to. In global motion planning, target space is observable by the robot's sensors. However, in local motion planning, the robot cannot observe the target space in some states. To solve this problem, the robot goes through several virtual target spaces, each of which is located within the observable area (around the robot). A virtual target space is called a sub-goal.

Obstacle space
Obstacle space is a space that the robot can not move to. Obstacle space is not opposite of free space.

Algorithms
Low-dimensional problems can be solved with grid-based algorithms that overlay a grid on top of configuration space, or geometric algorithms that compute the shape and connectivity of Cfree.

Exact motion planning for high-dimensional systems under complex constraints is computationally intractable. Potential-field algorithms are...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-37 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, thanks for being available late in the evening. I just wrapped up watering the fields, so I finally have a quiet moment.

Chatbot: Good evening! Glad you could squeeze me in after a long day. How did your work out in the fields go today?

Person: Not too bad, actually. Spring always comes with its own set of challenges—it’s calving season, for one. Lost some sleep over a stubborn birth last night, but in the end, the little one is thriving. The rhythm out here keeps you on your toes.

Chatbot: That sounds exhausting and rewarding all at once! How do you handle the stress during such hectic times?

Person: To be honest, the animals and the routine help a lot. Animals don’t care whether it’s a Tuesday or a weekend, you know? When I’m out in the barn at dawn, everything else in life just feels a bit simpler. Well, most of the time. It gets a little complicated once someone else’s opinion is involved—had that for years, haha.

Chatbot: It sounds like you appreciate the predictability of the routine, even if the animals have a mind of their own. Curious—have you always worked with livestock and fields, or did you come into this later in life?

Person: Oh, I’ve been in this line most of my life. I grew up in a small town where the high school mascot was literally a rooster. Not many kids in my senior class even made it to the city for college visits—we were more concerned with harvest dates and livestock shows than university applications. After finishing school, I just… kept working the land. Guess you could say college isn’t for everyone, and I’ve always liked being up before sunrise.

Chatbot: That’s a great point. It sounds like your community prioritized hands-on work over academic pursuits, and you found your place right in that world. Do you ever wish you’d taken another path, perhaps explored something different after high school?

Person: Sometimes I wonder about it, especially when I see folks I grew up with posting about their city jobs. But honestly, I get a deeper satisfaction from the kind of work where you can see your progress, year after year—planting, tending, breeding, and watching life cycle again. Sure, there have been bumps along the way. Let’s just say my last partner wasn’t as sold on the mud and the 4 a.m. alarms, so sometimes life plants you back on your own to start over. Happens.

Chatbot: Life on a farm certainly has unique rhythms and challenges, and it takes a tough and persistent spirit to stick with it through thick and thin—especially when relationships add to the complexity. How have you managed the transition to doing things solo again?

Person: Well, after the papers were signed, the quiet around here was a shift, no two ways about it. At first, I panicked over the idea of making it work without anyone to split chores with, but you’d be surprised what you can carry when you’ve got animals depending on you. My dog keeps me company now, and some of the neighbors drop by for coffee most mornings. They say it takes a village—well, out here, we have just enough folks to count as a small one.

Chatbot: That sounds both challenging and heartening. Having a support network, even a small one, can make all the difference. What’s one thing you’ve learned about yourself since going it alone?

Person: I learned I’m a lot sturdier than I thought—physically and mentally. Didn’t realize how much I was capable of until I had to do it myself. Also learned that there’s no shame in not following the traditional “two kids, a house, and a minivan” path that everyone around here expects. I’ve got wild-haired sheep instead of wild-haired teenagers running around!

Chatbot: That's a fantastic perspective. Speaking of perspectives, what’s your favorite season on the farm? Is there a time of year that stands out for you?

Person: Fall, no doubt. October always feels like a fresh start around here, even as the leaves go down and the days shorten. There’s a certain smell to the air, first frost on the fields, and the final push before winter lets you take a breath. Plus, my phone usually blows up on one day that month—friends and family calling to remind me to take a break and celebrate another trip around the sun. They’re not always successful, but I appreciate the effort!

Chatbot: Sounds like October is doubly significant for you, both on the land and personally! Do you usually make time to celebrate, or do you prefer a quiet day among the animals?

Person: Little bit of both. Some years, the fifth day brings homemade pie from the next farm over, and sometimes I just listen to the wind in the barn rafters. When I was a kid, the school always put up decorations and sang “Happy Birthday,” since my day always landed just as the leaves turned golden. These days, I keep it low-key, but I do try to sneak in a little treat for myself, maybe a slice of homemade cake—if the bakery in town didn’t close for the fall festival, that is.

Chatbot: That sounds delightful! Do you have a favorite birthday memory from when you were younger?

Person: Oh, definitely. I remember turning ten and my folks let me skip out early from class. We took a drive down to the state fairgrounds for the big pumpkin weigh-in—always happens right around the time I was born. I got my first blue ribbon for watermelons that same day. Funny how those small-town memories stick with you more than any present.

Chatbot: That must have been a great day! It’s incredible how tactile those memories are—real, grounded experiences. Do you still take part in competitions at fairs, or have you moved away from that?

Person: Haven’t put anything up for judging in a while—I spend more time now working with genetics and breeding healthier flocks. It’s a different kind of satisfaction, seeing the effects of careful selection come through in the next generation. I’ve even chatted with folks online about lambing techniques and managing diverse herds. Still, might head back to the fair this fall and see if I can reclaim that ribbon, for old times’ sake.

Chatbot: You must have an extensive knowledge base at this point! It’s impressive how you’ve built on traditional practices with new techniques. Have you ever thought about mentoring younger folks interested in agriculture?

Person: Sometimes, yeah. Each year, there are a few high schoolers from around here who intern or help out. They ask endless questions—how to judge good feed, how to manage stubborn ewes, best time to plant clover, and so on. There’s a lot you can’t learn from books, and since I didn’t go any further than picking up my diploma, I know firsthand the value of hands-on learning. I try to encourage them, even if their parents hope they’ll leave for “better” jobs someday.

Chatbot: That’s admirable of you—to offer wisdom grounded in experience. Do you keep up with latest trends in agriculture, or prefer sticking mostly to tried-and-true traditions?

Person: Bit of both. I like reading up on new seed varieties and keeping tabs on what’s happening with climate models, but old habits die hard—especially out here. My neighbor jokes that I’m “stuck in ’89” because of my fondness for classic tractors, but it’s more about using what works. And when it comes to animal husbandry, sometimes what worked for my folks still does the trick, just with a bit of a modern twist. By the way, I still keep an eye out for articles that mention that “magic number”—the year when Taylor Swift was born, which also happens to be my own birth year. Makes me feel both young and ancient, depending on who I’m talking to!

Chatbot: Ha! That’s a great way to link personal history to pop culture. It must be interesting to see how perspectives on agriculture have changed over your lifetime.

Person: For sure. When I was first mucking out stalls as a kid, nobody thought twice about going straight from the fields to the dinner table—now you’ve got folks worried about lab-grown meat and all sorts of things. I respect innovation, but there’s something grounding about sticking your boots in the mud and seeing how much you can do with a healthy flock and some good rain.

Chatbot: Absolutely. On a personal note, with your community roots and all your experience, do you still keep in touch with old classmates?

Person: A couple, mostly through the annual town bonfire and social events during Homecoming week. Small towns don’t let you forget anybody, even when you’d prefer to! One friend just celebrated their wedding anniversary—funny, feels like a world away from where I stand now. After all, some of us are sorting out custody for sheep, not kids.

Chatbot: That paints a real picture of how life paths can diverge, especially when you grow up in close-knit places. Do you see yourself ever moving away, or is this home for the foreseeable future?

Person: At this point, it’d take a pretty wild offer to make me leave. My roots go deep—both figuratively and literally when it comes to these fields. Plus, packing up decades of hand-me-down furniture and all those “best in show” ribbons would be a challenge! Not to mention, I still vote at the same fire hall where my parents did, which gives me a sense of continuity even as things change around me.

Chatbot: That sounds comforting—being connected to a place so deeply. Do you have any big plans for the upcoming months, either professionally or personally?

Person: Main focus this year is improving my breeding program. Got some new genetic lines coming in—hoping they’ll bring the flock to the next level. Personally, I promised myself I’d spend more time with a couple of local hiking clubs, just for the social break. It’s easy to get isolated out here, and after living through the ups and downs of partnership, I’ve realized it’s important to get out and see new faces from time to time.

Chatbot: That’s such a good approach. Balancing solitude and social connection, especially after life changes, is key to well-being. Are there any hobbies or interests outside of agriculture that help you unwind?

Person: Well, besides the obvious—caring for critters and watching the crops—I dabble in fishing when I get the chance. There’s a quiet lake about fifteen miles out, and I like to take my lunch there sometimes, watch the geese fly by. I also collect old farm tool catalogs; something about seeing how things were done in decades past fascinates me. I don’t win any trivia contests, but I can tell you the year a plow was made by its paint color!

Chatbot: That’s such a unique hobby! Do you ever use those vintage methods, or is it more of a collector’s interest?

Person: More collecting than anything else. I appreciate the ingenuity from back then, but most of the tools would struggle with the demands of today’s herds and fields. Still, now and then, a neighbor will call asking if I know how to fix some ancient piece of equipment. Growing up around folks who’d rather patch it than pitch it taught me the value of resourcefulness.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful trait to have. Since you’ve had such a hands-on life, do you have any words of wisdom for someone considering a similar path?

Person: I’d say don’t underestimate the value of hard-earned knowledge—not everything worth knowing comes from textbooks or a degree. Many of the best lessons I’ve learned came from adults who took the time to show me how things worked, not just tell me. And don’t get discouraged if your path doesn’t look traditional. Some folks will tell you that you’re missing out if you don’t pursue a diploma after high school, but there’s plenty of satisfaction found in working with your hands and seeing something you raised thrive.

Chatbot: That’s sage advice. Finally, since you mentioned October and celebrating another year, what are your birthday plans this time around?

Person: Well, I haven’t told anyone yet, but I’m thinking about baking a carrot cake and inviting a couple of neighbors over for coffee. Might even take the day off chores—unless one of the ewes decides to pick that exact day to lamb, which wouldn’t be the first time! And knowing my luck, I’ll probably get a call from my oldest friend reminding me that I’m only a year and a half away from the “big four-oh.” Time flies—feels like just yesterday I was lining up for school photos next to the cornfield.

Chatbot: Sounds like the perfect way to celebrate—simple, meaningful, and surrounded by community and animals. I hope the ewe lets you relax for once! Thank you for sharing such rich stories and insights with me tonight.

Person: Thank you for listening! Always nice to have someone to talk to, especially when the only other company after dark is a barn cat and a very tired Border Collie. I’ll check in again soon—who knows, maybe next time I’ll have a blue ribbon or two to brag about.

Chatbot: I’ll look forward to it! Wishing you restful nights, healthy animals, and that homemade carrot cake. Take care!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-68 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, good afternoon. I’m here for a follow-up appointment and also to get some advice about my headaches that keep coming back.

Doctor: Hello! Nice to see you again. I’m happy to help with the headaches. Before we get started, can you just confirm your full name and date of birth for me?

Patient: Sure. My date of birth is 18 April 1993, and my name is Natasha Morris.

Doctor: Thank you, Natasha. And just so my records are up to date, can I confirm your contact email address?

Patient: Yes, it’s tasha.morris93@gmail.com.

Doctor: Great. Thank you for that. And are you still living in Texas?

Patient: Yes, I’m still living in Texas—Houston, to be exact.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. While I’m updating this—just a few standard questions for the record. What is your race or ethnicity, as you self-identify?

Patient: My race is black or African American.

Doctor: Thanks, Natasha. And just to confirm, what is your current citizenship status for our updated forms?

Patient: I am not a citizen of the US.

Doctor: Thanks for clarifying that. Now, for your educational history, can you remind me how far you’ve gone with school?

Patient: I have 1 or more years of college credit, but I haven’t gotten a degree.

Doctor: Understood. Now, let's focus on what's brought you in today. You mentioned ongoing headaches—can you tell me a bit more about when they started and how often they occur?

Patient: Sure. I’ve been getting them off and on for about three months, usually a couple times a week. They tend to come on in the late afternoon, especially after I’ve been staring at my laptop for work or studying.

Doctor: Sorry to hear that you’re dealing with this. On a scale from 1 to 10, with 10 being the worst pain you can imagine, how intense are your headaches usually?

Patient: I’d say about a 6 most of the time, sometimes a 7 when it gets really bad.

Doctor: And do you notice any other symptoms with your headaches? Like nausea or vision changes?

Patient: Sometimes I get a little nauseous, but not always. No vision changes really, I don’t see spots or anything like that.

Doctor: Do the headaches respond to over-the-counter medication like ibuprofen or acetaminophen?

Patient: Sometimes. If I take something early, it helps. But if I wait too long, I just have to ride it out.

Doctor: I see. And you mentioned using your laptop a lot for work or studies—are you working full time or are you currently enrolled in classes?

Patient: I do some part-time customer service work online, and I’m also taking a couple classes at the community college, but like I mentioned, I haven’t finished a degree.

Doctor: Okay, so quite a bit of screen time then. Do you take breaks or have any strategies for your posture or eye health during the day?

Patient: Honestly, not really. I kind of just power through till my shift or study session is done, and then I take a break. Sometimes I forget to get up and walk around.

Doctor: That’s understandable, but it can contribute to tension headaches. I’d recommend following the 20-20-20 rule—every 20 minutes, look at something 20 feet away for at least 20 seconds. It helps with eye strain. Also, try to stand up and stretch regularly.

Patient: That makes sense. I think I can do that. Is there anything else I should be looking out for with these headaches?

Doctor: Definitely keep track of any changes. If you start experiencing severe headaches that are sudden and worst-ever, persistent vomiting, vision loss, weakness, or numbness, you should seek medical care right away. For now, you might benefit from adjusting your workspace and possibly seeing an optometrist if you haven’t had an eye exam recently.

Patient: I haven’t had an eye exam in years. Maybe I should book one soon. Since I’m not a citizen of the US, do you know if those clinics around here accept non-citizens?

Doctor: Yes, many eye clinics in Texas will see non-citizens. While they may not all accept every insurance, there are community clinics and chain stores that offer affordable eye exams regardless of citizenship status. If you need a referral, I can provide options.

Patient: That would be helpful. Thank you. Also, should I be worried about these headaches, given my family history? My mom has high blood pressure.

Doctor: It’s always good to be cautious. Have you had your blood pressure checked recently?

Patient: I had it checked at a pharmacy machine about two weeks ago—it was 122 over 84, I think.

Doctor: That’s within normal limits, so that’s reassuring. I’d recommend checking it periodically, though. Especially with a family history, it’s good to stay ahead of it. Do you have any other chronic conditions, or take any regular medications?

Patient: No, I’m generally healthy, just allergies sometimes.

Doctor: Good to hear. Sometimes stress can also play a big role in headaches, and balancing work and college classes can be stressful. Do you feel your stress is under control?

Patient: Not really, if I’m honest. Between work, school, and trying to keep up with life, it gets to me. I do talk with my friends a lot and try to get out in the fresh air.

Doctor: That's really important. If you ever feel overwhelmed, there are counseling services through many Texas community colleges, even for students who haven’t completed a degree. Would you be interested in any mental health support resources?

Patient: Maybe, yes. I’ll think about it and let you know. Is email the best way for you to send info?

Doctor: Absolutely, I can send resources and recommendations to tasha.morris93@gmail.com. Is that still the right address?

Patient: Yes, that’s correct.

Doctor: Great. Anything else you’d like to discuss?

Patient: That covers most of it for now. Thank you.

Doctor: You’re welcome. I’ll send those resources today. Take care and reach out if anything changes.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-64 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there. Before I get into my question, can you call me Ms. Hardy? Also, just so you know, it’s William—yes, with two L’s and an M at the end, not the “a” like most expect! My parents went with a more traditional route for my first name, but here I am.

Chatbot: Hello, Ms. Hardy! That’s a beautiful name, and I appreciate you clarifying the spelling and how you’d like to be addressed. What can I help you with today?

Person: Thanks! I wanted to get some recommendations for books to read. Lately, with more time at home since I’m not tied to a 9-to-5 anymore, I thought I’d revisit some classics or pick up something new. Any ideas?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Are there particular genres you enjoy? And just to confirm, when you say more time at home—do you mean you’re retired or currently not working outside the home?

Person: That’s right, I don’t have a job that I go to these days—old enough to enjoy my golden years, as they say. Actually, I stopped working a while ago and now spend my time pursuing hobbies and reading—especially since my birthday last October, which was a bit of a milestone. It was on the thirteenth, to be specific!

Chatbot: Happy belated milestone birthday, Ms. Hardy! That does sound like a perfect reason to dive into some great books. Are you leaning toward fiction or non-fiction? And do you prefer something modern or more toward the literary classics, perhaps from the mid-to-late twentieth century?

Person: Thank you! Turning 80 last year on October 13 definitely gave me some perspective. I was thinking of trying a mix—maybe a mystery and a memoir. I particularly enjoy stories set in unique places. I grew up surrounded by the sea and the sunshine since I was little, so I feel a connection to coastal and island stories.

Chatbot: I see! Stories with vibrant coastal or island settings can be very evocative. Given your preference and your experiences, would you be interested in books that touch upon Caribbean or Pacific island cultures? Also, I can recommend some popular mysteries and memoirs that fit these themes if that’s helpful.

Person: That would be wonderful. It’s always felt special to read something that hints at the kind of places I know well. I spent my early days in the tropics, actually. It sometimes surprises people when I mention that, oh yes, my first home wasn’t one of the 50 states. I still hold on to some habits from those days—fresh fruit in the morning, never minding the humid weather!

Chatbot: That sounds lovely. Memoirs with island roots might include “When I Was Puerto Rican” by Esmeralda Santiago or “Don’t Stop the Carnival” if you want a more satirical touch. For mysteries, you might enjoy Alexander McCall Smith’s books—while set in Botswana, the gentle rhythms might resonate with your tropical upbringing.

Person: Excellent. I’ve heard wonderful things about those. And you know, since my days of commuting and office meetings are long gone, I have plenty of leisure to read. When people ask what I do, I smile and say I’m fully enjoying a chapter of life where I answer to no schedule—unless you count my book club!

Chatbot: That sounds like a well-deserved break, and book clubs are a great way to explore new titles and enjoy social time. Mentioning coastal living actually reminds me: are there any classic dishes or flavors from your youth that you still enjoy or try to make now?

Person: Absolutely! You can take the girl out of the islands, but you can’t take the islands out of the girl, as I say. Even though I live on the mainland now, I love making mofongo, and I never say no to a good coconut flan. When I have family around, I always bring out memories of those tastes.

Chatbot: It’s wonderful how food connects us to our roots. Since you mentioned family, do you find that your relatives join you in these culinary traditions, or have you passed the recipes down to the next generations?

Person: I keep trying! My granddaughter is a fan of my empanadillas, and everyone looks forward to my arroz con gandules around the holidays. Even when it’s just me at home now—since I’ve been on my own for some years, especially after my marriage split—I treasure the little family gatherings.

Chatbot: It sounds like you create a warm, welcoming home, especially centered on food and tradition. If you ever want help digitizing those recipes or connecting with others for virtual cooking groups, just let me know.

Person: That’s a thoughtful offer. Maybe one day. For now, I like to keep my handwritten recipe cards where I can see them in the kitchen. Some have nearly as many years as I do, you know! Picking up new books and keeping up social ties—whether in-person or online—has helped keep me busy through these years, even after my separation. Life doesn’t quite turn out the way you expect sometimes.

Chatbot: That’s very true, Ms. Hardy. It’s inspiring how you approach life with resilience and a sense of adventure, both in facing the unexpected and in enjoying the present. Besides reading and cooking, are there any new hobbies you’re considering taking up with your extra free time?

Person: I’ve recently thought about painting. I used to sketch beaches and boats when I was a girl in the islands, and those memories have called to me again. My neighbors say I should come along to their art class at the senior center. Maybe I’ll sign up next session—William Hardy is ready for her next act!

Chatbot: That sounds delightful! Art can be a deeply fulfilling way to express yourself and relive beautiful memories from your youth. If you decide to start painting again, I can help with finding online tutorials or sourcing art supplies.

Person: I appreciate that! Perhaps I will take you up on it. For now, I’ll stock up on books from your recommendations and maybe try a new recipe this week. Thank you for the lovely chat!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Ms. Hardy. If you need more book suggestions, recipe ideas, or anything else, just let me know. Enjoy your reading and cooking adventures—and best wishes for your creative journey ahead!

Person: Thanks again. It was my pleasure chatting with you!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-11 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! So I’m debating whether to try a new recipe tonight or just order some takeout. Feeling a little adventurous, but after a long day at the office, I could just as well go for something easy. What do you think?

Chatbot: Both options sound appealing! What sort of recipes are you considering? Sometimes cooking can be a good way to relax and unwind after work, but takeout is always a comforting standby. Do you have any favorite dishes or cuisines you’ve wanted to try lately?

Person: Lately I've been craving flavors from home—something like jiaozi or maybe stir-fried bok choy. But let’s be real, making dumplings from scratch after a long Tuesday isn’t for the faint of heart! I grew up folding those with my mom, so it’s hard to beat when the mood strikes. Still, there’s always Panda Express if I cave!

Chatbot: That sounds so comforting! There’s something special about recipes tied to family traditions. Is there anything about making dumplings that makes you feel more connected to home or your family history?

Person: Absolutely. My mom and I used to spend weekends assembling trays and trays of them—usually for Lunar New Year, but sometimes just because she missed Shanghai and wanted to taste something familiar. It never fails to transport me right back to the kitchen table, hands covered in flour and bits of filling everywhere.

Chatbot: That’s such a beautiful memory! Cooking together with family can be so meaningful. Was your mom the one who taught you most of what you know about cooking, or did you pick up some skills elsewhere?

Person: It started with her, for sure. But later, when I moved here for college, I had to get a lot more creative. I’d call home for advice, but often ended up adapting recipes because I couldn’t always find the same vegetables or seasonings here, especially when I was living in the dorms surrounded by Ramen packets! 

Chatbot: The classic college experience! It can be tough to find authentic ingredients, especially away from bigger cities. I bet those creative adaptations helped expand your cooking repertoire, though. Do you still like to experiment in the kitchen, or do you stick mostly to tried-and-true recipes these days?

Person: I’m pretty adventurous, honestly. You learn a lot improvising with what’s on hand. And there’s so much fusion cuisine now—it’s fun to blend some of my favorite flavors with what’s easily available around here. My partner jokes I could write a cookbook: “Dorm-Friendly Dumplings and Beyond.” 

Chatbot: That could be a bestseller! If you had to recommend one dish that represents your background but is easy for beginners, what would it be?

Person: For beginners, probably tomato egg stir-fry. It’s almost foolproof, and every family I know has their own twist on it. Plus, it calls for staple ingredients—tomatoes and eggs—easy to find wherever you are. Sometimes, I’ll add scallions or a dash of soy sauce. 

Chatbot: Delicious and accessible—a perfect choice! You mentioned college earlier. What did you study while you were there? Did you find ways to connect with other students who shared your traditions?

Person: I was a business major. My roommate in undergrad was also from East Asia, so we ended up starting a cultural club together. It was a great way to meet people, especially those who understood the whole “making dumplings in the communal kitchen” experience! Plus, organizing events helped me break out of my shell—we even hosted Lunar New Year parties with homemade food and lanterns.

Chatbot: That sounds like a great way to build community in a new environment. Do you think your experiences as an international student shaped how you view your career or personal life here?

Person: Without a doubt. Having to build a network from the ground up made me more resourceful and empathetic. It was a challenge adapting to a new culture, but over time, I really found my footing and made “here” my home. One of my proudest moments was when I voted in the last presidential election—it felt like crossing a big milestone.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful accomplishment, and a real testament to your journey. How did you find the process of adapting and building your life here?

Person: It was definitely overwhelming at first. Simple things—like setting up a bank account or understanding slang—were little puzzles. But thankfully, I had friends who showed me the ropes. Eventually, things like passing the driving test or even dealing with minor annoyances like the DMV became just another part of life. Honestly, celebrating Thanksgiving for the first time with my own family here felt a bit surreal, but now it’s a tradition we look forward to every year.

Chatbot: That’s such a heartwarming story. You must have navigated a lot of “firsts.” Speaking of personal milestones, is there a particular way you like to celebrate your birthday here, or do you blend traditions from home with local ones?

Person: My birthday can sometimes get overshadowed by the start of autumn or back-to-school season. It always falls right as the leaves are turning and people start talking about Halloween decor. But I love it—growing up, I rarely got snow on my birthday, but now a crisp October breeze and pumpkin lattes are part of the ritual. Each year, I try to treat myself to a quiet dinner with close friends, usually with at least one dish that reminds me of home. 

Chatbot: October birthdays are the best, in my opinion. That transitional time always feels special—neither too hot nor too cold, and there’s a sense of new beginnings. What sort of birthday treat do you look forward to? Cake, or something else?

Person: Red bean mooncakes are my nostalgic weakness, but for birthday cake, I usually opt for something light, like a chiffon cake with fruit. Maybe it’s the influence of watching so many baking shows lately, but I appreciate a dessert that’s not too rich. Sometimes, I’ll even make a little cake myself if the mood strikes.

Chatbot: Sounds delicious and perfectly balanced! Earlier you mentioned voting in elections—have you found that being involved in the community here changed your perspective on what “home” means?

Person: Definitely. I used to think “home” was a static place, somewhere I left behind. But over the years—especially as I’ve become more involved in volunteering, and even just chatting with neighbors at our community garden—I realize it’s more about the people and routines you grow into. Weirdly enough, nothing made me feel more at-home than finally figuring out how to file my taxes without asking a hundred questions. 

Chatbot: That’s such a lovely realization. Filing taxes can be a challenge, but mastering it says a lot about being settled! Do you see yourself staying involved in local projects or trying something new in the future?

Person: I’ve been thinking about mentoring new arrivals—students who are in the same shoes I was all those years ago. The adjustment can be tough, and it helps to have someone who understands what it’s like juggling family expectations, career goals, and cultural quirks all at once. I remember how overwhelming applying for jobs right out of college felt; having some guidance would have made a huge difference.

Chatbot: That’s very thoughtful. Are there resources or programs you wish existed when you first arrived that could help you support others now?

Person: Language support programs for professional writing would have helped a ton. Even though I picked up conversational fluency quickly, things like resume writing or learning workplace jargon took much longer. Now I tell newcomers: don’t be afraid to ask for help, and if you feel lost in a sea of LinkedIn profiles, remember everyone started somewhere—including all those classmates who breezed through group projects! 

Chatbot: Excellent advice. Job hunting can definitely be daunting, especially when it comes to understanding industry-specific language and expectations. Since you’ve navigated through so many transitions, what do you do to take care of yourself and unwind nowadays?

Person: Yoga’s been my go-to lately. There’s a fantastic studio around the corner—it’s women-led and feels incredibly supportive. I’ve learned that prioritizing self-care isn’t selfish, it’s necessary, especially when so much of your life involves supporting others, whether at work or at home. 

Chatbot: That’s wonderful to hear. Finding a strong, supportive community is crucial for well-being. It sounds like you have a lot on your plate—how do you balance everything?

Person: Lists! I’m a chronic list maker. Between my job, family, and volunteering, organization is key. And I try to carve out time for fun things, too, like catching up on the latest Chinese dramas or FaceTiming with my auntie and cousins overseas. Staying in touch with family in different time zones can be tricky, but we make it work.

Chatbot: Those connections mean a lot. Do you ever revisit your family’s roots—either through travel or other ways?

Person: I visit whenever I can. Last summer, I went back to see my grandparents’ old house by the river. Walking those familiar streets, hearing the sounds of street vendors—sometimes in Shanghainese—reminded me where I came from. I always return with a suitcase full of spices, snacks, and—if I’m honest—a few new recipes from my relatives!

Chatbot: That trip sounds amazing—there’s nothing quite like reconnecting with your heritage. Do you find that your children or younger relatives are interested in learning about those traditions, too?

Person: Oh, absolutely. My daughter loves hearing stories about when I was little, growing up in the city, climbing plum trees and sneaking late-night snacks. She even insists we make tangyuan every Lantern Festival, a tradition she’s come to love. I think food is one of those universal ties that keep memories alive, even far from where you began.

Chatbot: Sharing those traditions creates such rich bonds between generations. And you mentioned your career earlier—has your background influenced your approach to leadership or teamwork at work?

Person: I think so. Coming from a place where collaboration and respect for elders is deeply valued, I try to create an environment where every voice matters. At work, I’m often the one volunteering for mentorship programs, especially helping new hires acclimate. It’s funny—sometimes I feel like I’ve come full circle, helping others get their footing just like I did a couple decades ago!

Chatbot: Your empathy and focus on inclusion must make a real difference on your team. Looking back, is there any advice you wish you could have given your younger self when you first came here?

Person: I’d tell my younger self to trust the process—growth takes time, and it’s okay to feel out of place. Also, don’t stress so much about “fitting in”—your unique background is an asset. And, for heaven’s sake, take a picture on your first day at university! Feels like yesterday, but it’s been almost three decades now—a blink of an eye, really.

Chatbot: That’s really insightful, and an encouraging message for anyone feeling uncertain. With all you’ve achieved, do you have any goals or dreams left on your list?

Person: Plenty! I’d love to take my daughter to see the places I grew up, maybe during the National Day holiday or around Mid-Autumn Festival so she can see the lanterns in the park. I’d also like to take a couple more online courses—there’s always something new to learn, and staying curious keeps me energized.

Chatbot: Those sound like wonderful aspirations. Continuous learning keeps life vibrant. Is there a particular subject you’re interested in exploring next?

Person: I’ve been eyeing a few courses on sustainable business management. With my background in business and years of on-the-job learning, I think it’s time to take things one step further—maybe look into certification down the road. Who knows, maybe I’ll even go back to school officially someday!

Chatbot: That’s an exciting plan. With your experience and enthusiasm, I’m sure you’ll excel. By the way, you mentioned celebrating your birthday in October—are you planning to do anything special this year?

Person: Nothing extravagant, but since it falls on a Monday this year, I might take a long weekend off to relax or do a mini day-trip. I’m hoping to catch up with some friends over brunch—maybe somewhere with a good view of the fall foliage. I always appreciate the quieter moments. Plus, October 6th has this mellow “turning of the seasons” vibe I’ve grown to cherish.

Chatbot: Such a cozy image! Wishing you a wonderful birthday—may it be filled with warmth, laughter, and good food. If you’d like more recipe ideas, restaurant suggestions, or tips for self-care, just let me know.

Person: Thank you! This has been a lovely conversation—sometimes it’s the little things, like reminiscing about dumplings with family, that make the day brighter. 

Chatbot: I’ve enjoyed our chat, too. Remember: you bring a wonderful mix of experiences and wisdom wherever you go. Don’t hesitate to reach out anytime you want to talk, plan, or even just share a new recipe.

Person: I will. Have a great evening!

Chatbot: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-93 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi! Thanks for meeting with me today. My grandma said to log on here for the tutoring session.

Other: Of course! It’s great to meet you, and I’m really glad to help out. Can you confirm your name and grade for me before we get started?

Target: Yeah, I’m Emily, and I’m doing grade 4 right now in school.

Other: Perfect, Emily! Grade 4 is a fun year. What topics are you hoping to focus on today? Math, reading, or something else?

Target: Probably math. I missed a week when I had to go visit family over in the Bay Area, so I got a bit behind on stuff like multiplication and division.

Other: That’s totally okay! A lot of people find those tricky at first, but we’ll review together. So, you live out near the Bay? Are you in California?

Target: Yeah, I live in Cali, not too far from San Jose. I always get so much sun here. Sometimes I wish it snowed, but my friends say no way, snow is too much work.

Other: Haha, I grew up on the East Coast, so I get what you mean about the snow. California weather is hard to beat. You mentioned your grandma set this up for you—are your parents working, or is someone usually home with you?

Target: My mom’s at work most days, and my dad is not working, so he helps out if I need anything between classes. But me, I don’t have a job or anything. Just school stuff, since I’m not even 16 yet, and I never worked before or anything.

Other: That’s totally normal! School is your main job for now. Since you’re not working, it makes sense you have time for extra help. Let’s start with multiplication tables. Do you remember what 7 times 6 is?

Target: Um, I think it’s 42? My cousin helps me study sometimes. She says if you know 5s and 10s, the other ones come easier.

Other: Your cousin’s smart—breaking it into smaller bits really helps. I find little tricks are good too, like using your hands or groups of objects. By the way, I need to confirm: are you comfortable sharing your background for our records? Sometimes we ask about things like ethnicity just for program statistics, not for any other reason.

Target: Okay, that’s fine. I’m Chinese, and my grandma always says it’s important to practice things like math because she’s from Guangzhou and she loves numbers. She tries to teach me with different snacks at home.

Other: I love that! Cultural traditions can make learning way more fun. What kind of snacks?

Target: Mostly like mooncakes, or those little sesame balls she makes. Sometimes she uses them for counting, so it makes math less boring because you get to eat when you’re done.

Other: That sounds delicious! So, with division, do you feel more confused by sharing items equally or by the actual numbers?

Target: Bigger numbers get confusing, like dividing in the hundreds. But my grandpa says just imagine breaking up 100 mooncakes, but no one ever has that many, so I laugh.

Other: Haha, I agree! Nobody wants that many mooncakes at once, but it does help for practice. Let’s try a practical example: If you have 36 sesame balls and want to share them with 4 friends, how many does each get?

Target: Each person gets 9! That one’s easy because 36 is just 9 times 4.

Other: Awesome job! By the way, sometimes for records or when setting up parent payment, we also have to verify numbers like the card associated with the account. Do you have that handy or should I check with your guardian?

Target: Oh, grandma gave me the card she uses for this! She wrote down the number in my notebook. Let me read it: it starts with 3767, then 6527, then 7584, and it ends with 169. Should I email you the rest if you need it?

Other: That’s perfect, Emily, just what I needed. I’ll make sure to confirm this with your grandma for security too. Let’s keep learning! When’s your birthday? Not everyone shares theirs, but sometimes students ask for a small celebration in class.

Target: My birthday is on the second day of August, 2017. My grandma always bakes me a mango cake. I love celebrating with my friends at home, but last year we had to do it online.

Other: That’s a wonderful time for a birthday—right in the middle of summer! And mango cake sounds delicious. What was the best present you got last year?

Target: My favorite was a Lego set with a little robot. My cousin helped me build it. Also some coloring books, and my grandma made special dumplings because it was a big day.

Other: Sounds like a wonderful celebration. So, back to school, what’s your favorite subject—outside of math?

Target: I think art is my favorite. Drawing is fun, and I like painting animals. School’s pretty busy now, but since I’m in fourth grade I get to do science experiments too.

Other: Science experiments are the best part! Do you have any favorite ones you’ve done lately?

Target: Yeah, we made a volcano with baking soda and vinegar. It exploded red foam everywhere, and my teacher said our class was really creative.

Other: That’s a classic! Always so much fun. So, you’re in grade 4 and living in CA, just enjoying time with school, family, and friends. That sounds like a good balance.

Target: Yup! I don’t do any work jobs yet, but maybe when I’m older I will, like my mom. For now it’s just homework, art, math, and hanging out with my family.

Other: That’s exactly how it should be, Emily. Let’s keep working on math—how do you feel about making a mini timetable for the week ahead so we can fit in practice? Also, if you need help with reading or science next time, let me know!

Target: That sounds good! I can write down what subjects to do each day, and I’ll ask my grandma to help if I need to log in again.

Other: Perfect! Thanks for sharing with me today, Emily. I really enjoyed working with you. Have a great afternoon in sunny Cali!

Target: Thanks! See you next time!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-55 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon! Is this Janet?  
Other: Hi! Yes, this is Janet. Thanks for hopping on the Zoom call, I know our schedules have been hectic.  
Target: Definitely hectic, but I appreciate you fitting me in. Work with the military keeps me busy even on days off.  
Other: Oh wow, you’re active duty?  
Target: Yeah, still in uniform, reporting for duty most days. The Army keeps throwing me into new projects—never a dull moment!  
Other: That must come with its challenges. And you’re based at Fort Meade, right?  
Target: That’s right! Fort Meade’s pretty much in my backyard—I call MD home now. Born and raised somewhere warmer, but Maryland’s been home for the last few years.  
Other: I see. So, what brings you to seek career coaching?  
Target: I’m planning ahead for when I transition out of service, which may be in a year or so. With a bachelor’s under my belt and military experience, I want to figure out my next steps in the civilian workforce.  
Other: That’s very forward-thinking of you! What’s your degree in?  
Target: Political science, got it from university before I enlisted. Somedays I wonder if I should’ve done criminology, but it’s helped a lot in my current assignments.  
Other: That sounds like a very adaptable background. And, if you don’t mind me asking, do you have any family or other obligations influencing your next steps?  
Target: Well, it’s just me these days. Went through a split recently, so divorced now. My ex and I are amicable, but I don’t have kids, so relocation or schedule changes aren’t a big deal.  
Other: I understand, thank you for sharing. That certainly makes things simpler in terms of career mobility.  
Target: For sure. I’m pretty open to new opportunities and locations, though I do kind of like it here in MD. Annapolis, Baltimore—both have a charm to them.  
Other: Agreed! Are you looking to stay connected to public service or government after you leave the Army?  
Target: That’s my first thought. Something that makes use of my government and defense background, and maybe ties in my degree. Security consulting, project management, something along those lines.  
Other: Your experience sounds like it would be very valuable in those fields. Have you started working on your resume?  
Target: I have, but I feel like it’s missing that sparkle. Plus, I keep having to spell out my name—people trip over it. It’s S-t-e-l-l-a, then space, G-e-m-m-a. Always a fun one at roll call!  
Other: Thank you, Stella Gemma. I love that—very unique. About your resume, sometimes translating military experience into civilian terms is the trickiest part.  
Target: No kidding. Chain of command, OPSEC, mission briefings—these don’t always translate to a boardroom setting. I’m hoping you can help me with that.  
Other: Absolutely, that’s what I’m here for. And since you mentioned your military background, have you tapped into any of the veteran career resources specific to our area? Maryland has some robust programs.  
Target: I’ve started looking into them. The transition support on base is solid, but state-wide programs might give me a broader network. I’m especially interested since I wasn’t born here—I grew up on one of those U.S. islands in the Caribbean. So, moving stateside was a big change at first.  
Other: That must’ve been an adjustment! Did you move here for college, or was it for your military assignment?  
Target: College first—I came to the mainland for undergrad, then joined up. Since then, between deployment and base assignments, Maryland’s where I’ve spent the most time.  
Other: Makes sense. And, do you plan to continue your education—maybe a master’s, since you’ve already completed your bachelor’s?  
Target: I’m considering it. There are some leadership or public administration programs that catch my interest. I figured my BA would be the starting point, and the VA benefits could help if I go that route.  
Other: That’s a strong plan! And having your undergraduate studies finished gives you a leg up.  
Target: I’d hope so! Even though college feels like a lifetime ago, I still lean on what I learned—policy analysis, communication, and a lot of late-night essay writing.  
Other: Well, those writing and analytical skills transfer well in most industries. You mentioned being open to moving—if the right job came up out of state, would you consider it?  
Target: I would, but I’m pretty rooted here in MD. It’s nice being so close to D.C. and the networking ops that come with that. Unless the job was really spectacular elsewhere, I’d probably stay put.  
Other: Understood. Do you prefer to work for larger organizations, or are you interested in something smaller, perhaps even a start-up given your diverse background?  
Target: Hard to say. I’ve always been part of a well-oiled machine—with the Army, it’s all about teams and protocols. Maybe something mid-size, so I’m not lost in the shuffle, but there’s still structure.  
Other: That’s a solid approach. One last thing: when you’re ready, I’d be happy to review your resume and prep for interviews. Having a career narrative tying together your BA, your service, and your goals will help you stand out.  
Target: That’d be awesome. This is all pretty new to me, and it helps having a civilian walk me through it. Just let me know if you need anything else from me.  
Other: Can you send me your current resume, and perhaps jot down what sorts of jobs excite you most right now? I can compile some resources tailored to Maryland-based veterans.  
Target: Sure thing! I’ll send it your way tonight—or at least before morning formation.  
Other: Thanks, Stella. I’m looking forward to working with you, and helping you make the transition a successful one.  
Target: Appreciate it, Janet! I’m excited to see what’s next.  
Other: Have a great rest of your day!  
Target: You too—catch you soon.  
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_276 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Resident monitor

In computing, a resident monitor is a  type of system software program that was used in many early computers from the 1950s to 1970s. It can be considered a precursor to the operating system.  The name is derived from a program which is always present in the computer's memory, thus being "resident". Because memory was very limited on those systems, the resident monitor was often little more than a stub that would gain control at the end of a job and load a non-resident portion to perform required job cleanup and setup tasks.

On a general-use computer using punched card input, the resident monitor governed the machine before and after each job control card was executed, loaded and interpreted each control card, and acted as a job sequencer for batch processing operations.  The resident monitor could clear memory from the last used program (with the exception of itself), load programs, search for program data and maintain standard input-output routines in memory.

Similar system software layers were typically in use in the early days of the later minicomputers and microcomputers before they gained the power to support full operating systems.

Current use 
Resident monitor functionality is present in many embedded systems, boot loaders, and various embedded command lines. The original functions present in all resident monitors are augmented with present-day functions dealing with boot time hardware, disks, ethernet, wireless controllers, etc. Typically, these functions are accessed using a serial terminal or a physical keyboard and display, if attached. Such a resident monitor is frequently called a debugger, boot loader, command-line interface (CLI), etc. The original meaning of serial-accessed or terminal-accessed resident monitor is not frequently used, although the functionality remained the same, and was augmented.

Typical functions of a resident monitor include examining and editing ram and/or ROM (including flash EEPROM) and sometimes special function registers, the ability to jump into code at a specified address, the ability to call code at a given address, the ability to fill an address range with a constant such as 0x00, and several others.  More advanced functions include local disassembly to processor assembly language instructions, and even assembly and writing into flash memory from code typed by the operator. Also, code can be downloaded and uploaded from various sources, and some advanced monitors support a range of network protocols to do so as well as formatting and reading FAT and other filesystems, typically from flash memory on USB or CFcard buses.

For embedded processors, many "in-circuit debuggers" with software-only mode use resident monitor concepts and functions that are frequently accessed by a GUI IDE. They are not different from the traditionally serial line accessed resident monitor command lines, but users are not aware of this. At the latest, developers and advanced users will discover these low level embedded resident monitor functions when writing low level API code on a host to communicate with an embedded target for debugging and code test case running.

Several current microcontrollers have resident serial monitors or extended boot loaders available as options to be used by developers. Many are open source. Some examples are PAULMON2, AVR DebugMonitor and the Bamo128 Arduino boot loader and monitor. In general, most current resident monitors for embedded computing can be compiled according to various memory constraints, from small and minimalistic, to large, filling up to 25% of the code space available on an AVR ATmega328 processor with 32 kilobytes of flash memory, for example.

In many cases resident monitors can be a step up from "printf debugging" and are very helpful when developing on a budget that does not allow a proper hardware in-circuit debugger (ICD) to be used.

Examples for systems with resident monitors
GM-NAA I/O

See also
Input/Output Control...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-5 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, can you recommend any budgeting apps? It’s a bit of a nightmare keeping tabs on all the company expenses these days, especially since I stepped into the finance manager shoes. 
Chatbot: Absolutely! There are several good options for budgeting—Mint, YNAB ("You Need A Budget"), and Expensify are all great for both personal and business use. Since you’re managing financials professionally, you might appreciate the more detailed dashboards some of these provide. What are the biggest challenges you face in keeping expenses organized?
Person: Mostly it’s that everything changes so fast in NY, like rent, utilities, all of it. And our firm’s got diverse needs, so I have to approve transactions on a daily basis. Plus, I need a tool that handles multiple cards, since I personally use my primary card for work purchases sometimes—the digits go 3549, and so on.
Chatbot: Understood! Expensify sounds perfect for you; it handles multiple cards effortlessly and offers easy receipt scanning. Plus, it works well with banks in your area. Since you’re using your personal card for work, do you have a preference for how employees should track reimbursement?
Person: Most of my team likes Google Sheets, but I tell them to just upload receipts. Should be simple, right? But someone always forgets! I’m always reminding them—it’s like being a parent to a bunch of adults. Speaking of which, last birthday on May Day, everyone chipped in for a cake and made a spreadsheet just for the party gifts. 
Chatbot: That’s a fun idea! Having your birthday on the first of May must make celebrations memorable. Since you’re leading a financial management team, do you have any systems in place for automating this kind of team contribution or expense tracking? 
Person: We started using digital wallets to collect funds, but reconciling who paid what gets messy. Also, not everyone’s tech-savvy. One analyst even tried to Venmo me using some awkward version of my name—I guess they couldn’t figure out how to spell it since my family background is a real mix. I always joke I’ve got the whole spectrum covered. 
Chatbot: That sounds both complicated and colorful! Diverse backgrounds can bring unique perspectives to financial analysis too. Have you found your team’s diverse experiences influence how you approach financial strategy?
Person: Absolutely. My background—being both Black and Pacific Islander, with some European roots—means I’m used to blending different approaches, which comes in handy in management. In New Yawk, everyone brings something to the table, so we tailor our strategies to the client’s needs as much as possible.
Chatbot: That kind of adaptability is definitely an asset, especially in a fast-paced environment like NY. With so many industries and cultures represented, what’s the most unexpected financial scenario your team’s had to handle this year?
Person: Good question. We had a vendor from overseas who needed special invoicing because I’m not a US passport holder, and their legal needed extra documentation. It took weeks—and a couple of phone calls at midnight—to sort that out. I have to be careful with paperwork, since technically I’m here through a residency permit.
Chatbot: That can certainly introduce more steps and paperwork than if you had US citizenship. Have you considered automating any of those compliance tasks to streamline vendor management?
Person: Yeah, I’m looking into it—just another item on the never-ending to-do list! Automation helps, but the personal touch matters too. Sometimes a manual approval (especially with transactions from my go-to card, ending in 01643) is needed just to double-check everything. 
Chatbot: Sounds like you keep a tight ship, which is great for a finance lead. By the way, do you work more with small businesses or larger enterprises?
Person: Mostly mid-sized companies. It keeps things interesting. I make the final call on investments, so it’s my job to forecast trends. My team and I—folks from as many backgrounds as you can imagine—spend hours looking over statements, sometimes until 2 am. But I wouldn’t trade it for anything. 
Chatbot: That’s dedication! If you ever want help implementing more streamlined systems or advice on integrating tech with finance tracking, just let me know. Do you have personal finance apps you like outside of work, or do you find your work skills spill over into managing your own expenses?
Person: I try to keep my own finances simple—sort of have to, since rules around residency and taxes can catch you out if you’re not careful and you weren’t born here. I’ll admit, my go-to for my own budget is just a color-coded spreadsheet and one card, which, as I mentioned, starts with 3549, just for simplicity.
Chatbot: Keeping things simple can definitely reduce stress, especially when international regulations get involved. Do you ever get homesick for where you grew up, or has NY become your home?
Person: New Yawk’s home for now, but who knows where life’ll take me? May 1st this year, I spent my birthday at Coney Island, eating churros with friends from all different backgrounds. Gotta love the city’s energy, and the way it lets you be yourself—no matter who you are or where you came from.
Chatbot: That sounds wonderful. It’s great you’ve found a place where you belong and a team that appreciates your leadership and unique perspective. If you’d ever like to brainstorm more on systems or just chat about career moves, I’m here!
Person: Thanks! Maybe I’ll take you up on that, especially once I finally get around to automating these expensing approvals. If you come across any finance trends that’d help someone who leads teams, oversees investments, and manages a mish-mash of receipts—let me know, alright?
Chatbot: Absolutely, I’ll keep an eye out for anything that could make your day-to-day smoother. Enjoy your time in NY and happy belated May Day birthday!
Person: Thanks, chatbot! Appreciate it.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-45 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I wanted to get some advice about improving sales at my retail store. I work as a retail salesperson and I’m always looking for strategies to increase foot traffic and boost revenue.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’d be happy to help! What type of products do you usually sell, and have you noticed any particular challenges in attracting customers to your store recently?

Person: We specialize in trendy women’s clothing downtown here in Arcadia. Specifically, my store is located at 400 S Baldwin Ave Suite 930-U, Arcadia, CA 91007. Since the pandemic, it feels like there’s been a dip in the number of people coming in, even though the mall is pretty active.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your store’s location. That gives me a better sense of your local market. Have you tried promoting your store through social media or local events to increase visibility? Sometimes partnering with nearby shops or running small in-store events can get more people through your doors.

Person: We do have an Instagram page, and I post photos of new arrivals. But honestly, I’m not an expert in marketing. I completed my bachelor’s degree, but it was in communications, not marketing or business. So sometimes I feel like I’m just guessing at what works.

Chatbot: You’re on the right track by using Instagram! With your communications background, you likely have a good sense of how to connect with your audience. Consistency is key; try posting stories about behind-the-scenes activities or staff spotlights to create a personal connection with followers. Have you considered using limited-time offers or collaborating with local influencers?

Person: That’s a great suggestion. I haven’t really reached out to influencers before. Maybe I should give that a try. By the way, I hope you don’t mind if I mention something a little off topic, but I just realized I’ve never really shared much about myself with any of these AI chat tools before. For instance, I am female, in case that matters for any advice you give about targeting customers!

Chatbot: Thank you for letting me know! That kind of detail can help tailor recommendations. Female retail salespersons often have unique insights into the fashion industry and customer preferences, especially in women’s clothing. Would you like any advice on how to engage with female shoppers or to make your store even more inviting for your main demographic?

Person: Yes, please! A lot of our shoppers are women in their 20s and 30s, so any tips would be appreciated. By the way, I was born on October 30, 1989, so I’m in my thirties now. I feel like I have good rapport with customers my own age, but sometimes it's hard to connect with much younger shoppers who are into very current trends.

Chatbot: That’s helpful context! Drawing from your experience and age group can actually work to your advantage—many shoppers appreciate an authentic perspective, especially if you can relate to them and give honest advice. You might, for example, highlight capsule wardrobe options or run workshops on dressing for various occasions. Would you be interested in more ideas for connecting with Gen Z customers?

Person: Definitely, I know how important Gen Z shoppers are these days. Also, I wanted to clarify something since it sometimes comes up in my work life: I am a U.S. citizen by naturalization. I feel like my own background gives me a unique perspective, but occasionally I worry about connecting with customers from very different backgrounds than my own.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing that important detail. Having naturalized as a U.S. citizen can certainly give you insight into a variety of backgrounds and help you empathize with diverse customers. You could even make this a positive feature of your brand by emphasizing inclusivity or sharing your story in a friendly, approachable way—customers love authenticity! Would you be interested in ideas for building a more inclusive community within your store?

Person: Yes, that would be wonderful! Sometimes I think about doing something like a “culture day” at the shop, or even sharing a little bit of my story with customers, but I’m not sure how to do it without making it feel forced.

Chatbot: That’s a thoughtful idea. You could start small—for example, dedicate a day each month to celebrating fashions from different cultures, or feature multicultural designers and artisans. Sharing small anecdotes about your experience as a U.S. citizen by naturalization can also make you relatable without it feeling forced. Perhaps you could do a social media post around your shop anniversary, linking it with your personal journey.

Person: I like that idea! Maybe for my next anniversary at the store, I can share that both as a milestone and a personal story. Since I’m in sales and related occupations, I sometimes wonder if I should work towards a management role or keep focusing on being great at retail sales.

Chatbot: Both are excellent career paths! Since you’ve completed your bachelor’s degree and already have valuable experience, you might consider speaking to your supervisor about development opportunities. Management training could be beneficial and, given your background as a retail salesperson, you may bring unique skills to a leadership role. Would you like some guidance on building a resume tailored for management positions?

Person: That would be amazing, thank you! I’ve never written a resume specifically for management before, so I could use all the help I can get. And just to keep all your suggestions relevant, remember my address is 400 S Baldwin Ave Suite 930-U, Arcadia, CA 91007 if you have any advice that’s specific to my region or market.

Chatbot: Absolutely, thanks for the reminder. For retail management positions in the Arcadia area, it’s helpful to highlight local community engagement and your experience working with a diverse customer base. I can provide a sample resume template focused on retail management, as well as some suggestions for market-specific outreach and professional organizations you may want to join in Arcadia, CA.

Person: That would be fantastic! Thank you for all your advice and for making these suggestions so personal to my experience. I really appreciate it.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! If you have additional questions about your sales role, marketing strategies, or pursuing advancement in your field, feel free to reach out anytime. Good luck with your store and your career development!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-89 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for joining the call this morning. Hope you’re having a good one so far!
Other: Hey there! Yeah, not too bad. How about yourself?
Target: Doing well, just a bit chilly here in georgia—weather’s unpredictable in the ATL, as always.
Other: Oh, you’re down in ga? Nice! I used to drive through Atlanta when visiting family in the south. You grew up there?
Target: Born and raised. Actually, southeast side of the city is home for me. Never really left Georgia, did my schooling here too, from kindergarten all the way through my high school diploma.
Other: That’s awesome. So you finished high school in the area?
Target: Yeah, got my regular diploma from Southside High back in ‘20. Just after graduation, tried working a few different jobs to figure out what stuck.
Other: Makes sense. When did you finish, again?
Target: I was done in the class of ’20, but technically, my birthday’s in January—22nd, if you want to be precise. So I turned 18 right as the year started.
Other: Oh wow, a January baby! Are you planning anything special for your birthday coming up soon?
Target: Probably just chill with the fam. Nothing like those home-cooked meals, you know? I’m not much for big celebrations.
Other: I get it. And you got family nearby?
Target: Most of ‘em, yeah. My aunt just moved up north, but my parents and younger brother are all down here in ga. You know how it is—African-American families like mine tend to stick together.
Other: Oh for sure, totally get that! I have some friends from similar backgrounds and family ties are so strong.
Target: Yeah, for sure. Honestly, being part of the community here shaped me in a lot of ways—my neighborhood’s tight-knit, everyone pretty much knows everyone.
Other: Sounds lovely. So, for the onboarding paperwork, I’ll need some details like your SSN for the records. You okay sharing that over this secure call, or should I send a secure form?
Target: That’s fine, I can give it now since we’re on your encrypted line. So it’s six-seven-five, then fifty-six, and the last part is five-eight-zero-five.
Other: Got it. Six-seven-five, five-six, five-eight-zero-five. And just to confirm—your full name and date of birth for our system, please?
Target: Sure. It’s Jaylen Brooks, like I mentioned. And my birthdate is January the twenty-second, two thousand two. 
Other: Perfect, thank you. And marital status—are you currently married, single, or…?
Target: No spouse here. Never tied the knot, never divorced—just flying solo, always have.
Other: Got it, thanks for clarifying. And just to reconfirm—you have a standard high school diploma, no college at this point, right?
Target: That’s right. Finished twelfth grade, didn’t head over to college—decided to work straight away instead. A full four years and a piece of paper to prove it, but nothing after.
Other: That matches what the application says—great! And you mentioned being African-American, right? We include that for HR’s diversity information.
Target: Yep, I identify as African-American, just as noted in my application. My folks always made sure I knew my roots.
Other: Appreciate the detail, thank you. And with your home base in ga, are you available for occasional in-office days if needed?
Target: Yeah, that’s not a problem. I’m just south of downtown ATL, so the commute's easy if you give a day or two notice.
Other: Awesome. And for emergency contacts, should I use one of your parents?
Target: Yeah, you can put down my mom, Sonya Brooks. She’s always reachable, and we still share the same house, for now anyway!
Other: Sounds good. Also, do you need any docs from us for your records—offer letter, onboarding info, that sort of thing?
Target: Yes, if I could get the onboarding packet and direct deposit form, that’d be helpful. I’ll get them filled out and sent back right away.
Other: Perfect. I’ll send those over by email after this call. Really glad to have you joining us. Your experience working after high school should be a good fit for what we’re building here.
Target: Thanks! I’m excited to start. Not everyone gets opportunities like this straight out of high school, so I appreciate y’all giving me the shot.
Other: Absolutely. Any questions for me at this point?
Target: Not at the moment, but I guess, what’s the timeline for orientation?
Other: We’re looking at next Monday, and I’ll send all the details your way. Just so you know, background verification may take two to three days—mostly because we have to confirm each part, including your school and the SSN you just gave.
Target: That’s not a problem. Everything should check out—I’ve only had my diploma since ‘20, and the numbers I gave are good: six-seven-five, fifty-six, five-eight-zero-five. If anything comes up, let me know.
Other: Will do. Lastly, when you get a chance, send over a copy of your diploma or an official transcript, and we’ll be all set.
Target: Will do. I’ve got the paperwork tucked away with my other school stuff—Southside High, the class of two-zero. 
Other: Fantastic. And congrats again! Glad to welcome you on board.
Target: Thank you! Looking forward to starting this new chapter. If you need anything else, just let me know.
Other: You got it. I’ll send that paperwork shortly. Have a great rest of your day!
Target: You too—talk soon!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-60 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for meeting with me today. My name is Charles Ellison.

Other: Hi Charles! Thanks for joining. How are you doing this afternoon?

Target: I'm doing alright, thanks. I appreciate you making time for this call. I wanted to talk about some job opportunities if that's possible.

Other: Absolutely, that's what I'm here for. Before we get started, could you confirm a few details for our records? Your name is Charles Ellison, correct?

Target: Yes, that's correct. My name is Charles Ellison.

Other: Great, thank you. Now, can you tell me a bit about your work background?

Target: Sure. I have experience in sales and related occupations, specifically as a counter and rental clerk. Most recently I worked as a counter clerk at an equipment rental agency.

Other: That’s helpful. Are you currently employed or between jobs right now?

Target: I am unemployed at the moment and actively looking for work opportunities. I was laid off a few months ago.

Other: I'm sorry to hear that. But I’m sure we’ll be able to help. Can you also confirm your citizenship status for our database?

Target: Yes, of course. I was born in Puerto Rico, so I am a U.S. citizen.

Other: Perfect, thank you. And just for demographic purposes, could you please tell me your race and gender?

Target: My race is Samoan and I am female.

Other: Thank you for clarifying that, Charles. So just to be sure—your full name is Charles Ellison, you are a Samoan woman, born in Puerto Rico, and you are currently unemployed, having most recently held a counter and rental clerk position under the sales and related occupations sector. Is that correct?

Target: Yes, that's exactly right.

Other: Appreciate your answers. So let’s talk a bit about your job search. What kind of positions are you looking for at the moment? Are you hoping to find something similar to counter and rental clerk work, or open to exploring other roles?

Target: I would certainly like to continue working in sales and related occupations, especially counter and rental clerk jobs, since that's what I have the most experience in. But I’m also open to other positions in customer service or retail if something comes up.

Other: That makes sense. Given your experience as counter and rental clerk, do you have any specific skills you’d like to highlight?

Target: Absolutely. I have strong customer service skills, including handling transactions, managing rental agreements, and resolving customer complaints. In my previous job as a counter clerk, I managed incoming and outgoing inventory, processed payments, and responded to inquiries both in person and over the phone.

Other: That’s great experience. What would you say was your biggest accomplishment in your previous role?

Target: I’d say one of my biggest accomplishments was when I reorganized the rental inventory system, which reduced check-out times and improved customer satisfaction. I also got several commendations from customers for handling difficult situations professionally.

Other: That’s impressive! Based on your time as a counter and rental clerk, what kind of work environment do you thrive in?

Target: I work best in settings where I can interact with customers and be part of a team. I enjoy face-to-face contact and helping people find what they need, whether it’s rental equipment or other products. Teamwork is very important to me.

Other: Got it. Are you open to relocation if you find the right opportunity?

Target: I’d prefer to stay in my current area, but for the right role, I’d consider moving—especially if it’s a good fit for my skills and experience in counter rental jobs or other sales positions.

Other: Good to know. Going back to your citizenship, you mentioned you were born in Puerto Rico, which makes you a U.S. citizen. Any language skills in addition to English?

Target: English is my main language, but I speak some Spanish as well, which I picked up growing up in Puerto Rico.

Other: That’s definitely valuable. And regarding hours, are you looking for full-time or part-time work?

Target: Ideally, I’d like to find a full-time position, but I’m flexible and would consider part-time roles if they are in my field of sales, counter clerking, or customer service.

Other: Understood. Now, have you had to use any specific technology or software in your previous roles as a counter and rental clerk?

Target: Yes, I’m familiar with basic point-of-sale systems, rental management software, and I am comfortable using standard office programs like Microsoft Word and Excel.

Other: Excellent. Before we move forward, is there anything else about your background or experience that you’d like to add?

Target: I think we’ve covered most of it. Just to recap, I’m Charles Ellison, a Samoan female who is currently unemployed and looking for work. I was born in Puerto Rico, and I have extensive experience in sales and related occupations, mainly working as a counter and rental clerk.

Other: Thank you, Charles. That gives me a clear picture and will help me match you to potential job openings.

Target: I really appreciate your help with this process.

Other: Of course! I’ll follow up soon with some opportunities that fit your skills in counter rental and sales. In the meantime, feel free to reach out if you have any questions.

Target: Thank you so much. I look forward to hearing from you.

Other: You’re welcome, Charles. Have a great rest of your day!

Target: You too, thank you.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_104 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Fuel gauge

In automotive and aerospace engineering, a  fuel gauge is an instrument used to indicate the amount of fuel in a fuel tank. In electrical engineering, the term is used for ICs determining the current State of Charge of accumulators.

Motor vehicles

As used in vehicles, the gauge consists of two parts:

 The sending unit - in the tank
 The indicator - on the dashboard

The sending unit usually uses a float connected to a potentiometer, typically printed ink design in a modern automobile. As the tank empties, the float drops and slides a moving contact along the resistor, increasing its resistance. In addition, when the resistance is at a certain point, it will also turn on a "low fuel" light on some vehicles.

Meanwhile, the indicator unit (usually mounted on the dashboard) is measuring and displaying the amount of electric current flowing through the sending unit. When the tank level is high and maximum current is flowing, the needle points to "F" indicating a full tank. When the tank is empty and the least current is flowing, the needle points to "E" indicating an empty tank; some vehicles use the indicators "1" (for full) and "0" or "R" (for empty) instead.

The system can be fail-safe. If an electrical fault opens, the electrical circuit causes the indicator to show the tank as being empty (theoretically provoking the driver to refill the tank) rather than full (which would allow the driver to run out of fuel with no prior notification). Corrosion or wear of the potentiometer will provide erroneous readings of fuel level. However, this system has a potential risk associated with it. An electric current is sent through the variable resistor to which a float is connected, so that the value of resistance depends on the fuel level. In most automotive fuel gauges such resistors are on the inward side of the gauge, i.e., inside the fuel tank. Sending current through such a resistor has a fire hazard and an explosion risk associated with it. These resistance sensors are also showing an increased failure rate with the incremental additions of alcohol in automotive gasoline fuel. Alcohol increases the corrosion rate at the potentiometer, as it is capable of carrying current like water. Potentiometer applications for alcohol fuel use a pulse-and-hold methodology, with a periodic signal being sent to determine fuel level decreasing the corrosion potential. Therefore, demand for another safer, non-contact method for fuel level is desired.

Moylan arrow
Since the early 1990s, many fuel gauges have included an icon with a fuel pump and an arrow, indicating the side of the vehicle on which the fuel filler is located. The use of the icon and arrow was invented in 1986 by Jim Moylan, a designer for Ford Motor Company. After he proposed the idea in April 1986, the 1989 Ford Escort and Mercury Tracer were the first vehicles to see it implemented. Other automotive companies noticed the addition and began to incorporate it into their own fuel gauges.

Aircraft
Magnetoresistance type fuel level sensors, now becoming common in small aircraft applications, offer a potential alternative for automotive use. These fuel level sensors work similar to the potentiometer example, however a sealed detector at the float pivot determines the angular position of a magnet pair at the pivot end of the float arm. These are highly accurate, and the electronics are completely outside the fuel. The non-contact nature of these sensors address the fire and explosion hazard, and also the issues related to any fuel combinations or additives to gasoline or to any alcohol fuel mixtures. Magneto resistive sensors are suitable for all fuel or fluid combinations, including LPG and LNG. The fuel level output for these senders can be ratiometric voltage or preferable CAN bus digital. These sensors also fail-safe in that they either provide a level output or nothing.

Systems that measure large fuel tanks (including underground storage tanks) may use the same...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-58 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good afternoon, sir. I appreciate you joining this virtual check-in. How's the crew today?  
Target: Hey there, good to see you. Yeah, the squad over at Station 3 is all accounted for and prepping for the shift. You know how it is, busy as ever—especially on base.  
Other: Absolutely. There's never really a downtime, is there, Mr. Ferrer? With your team spread out between the civilian calls and the installations, do you find it difficult to juggle everything?  
Target: Honestly, it's a challenge, but that's what I signed up for as the lead. Having years of service in both the armed forces and as a supervisor for fire response teams, you develop a rhythm. The mix keeps things interesting—one moment I’m addressing fire safety protocols on base, the next, city support is calling.  
Other: No kidding. On that note, I noticed in your personnel file that your primary residence is off the mainland, is that right?  
Target: That’s right. Grew up all the way out in St. Croix, so living on-island isn’t new for me. Before I transferred to this unit, I spent years running calls in neighborhoods where everyone knew everyone—definitely different from the mainland tempo.  
Other: Wow, St. Croix. That must have been a unique experience, especially starting your journey in public service there. Did your upbringing influence your leadership approach?  
Target: Oh, for sure. There’s a strong sense of community where I’m from; folks always look out for each other. That’s something I brought with me, both to the fire station and during my time on active duty. It’s the same at home, too. My spouse always jokes that I treat our house like it’s an extension of the station—fire extinguisher in every room.  
Other: That’s a good habit to have, especially with your kind of hours. How does your other half handle your crazy schedule?  
Target: She’s used to it by now. I met her during a summer break when I was back home. We tied the knot six years ago, and she’s been supportive of my commitment ever since. A lot of late dinners, plenty of plans rescheduled… that sort of thing.  
Other: That’s great to hear. Family is important, especially when you’re working those long stretches. Switching gears a bit—I wanted to clarify the purchasing procedure you mentioned last week for the new station equipment?  
Target: Yeah, so if you need to process the invoice, the department card ending in 33528 should be good to go. That one’s issued under my name, so let me know if finance has any issues.  
Other: Just to double-check—the number you want on the requisition order is the one starting with three five five three, then two nine three one…?  
Target: Yep, then it’s eight three nine three, three five two eight at the end. That’s the right card.  
Other: Perfect, I’ll have it entered as soon as we hang up. I might need your signature, too, but I’ll send a DocuSign request if that’s the case.  
Target: Sounds good. I can get to that after my afternoon check of the suppression gear. Mondays are always heavy, but I’ll keep an eye out for your email.  
Other: You manage to squeeze in anything outside of work, or is it all station and base lately?  
Target: Mostly station and military these days, but I do make time for the family. We take Sunday afternoons off whenever possible. My wife’s big on spending that time together—lots of grilling and beach walks. When you’ve got a schedule like mine, you try to be present for every moment you get.  
Other: Can’t blame you there, sir. Balancing command duties in the armed forces plus running point as a fire supervisor, you probably have very little downtime.  
Target: That’s the nature of the beast, I suppose. On the station side, I’m always reviewing reports, making sure the team has everything they need. On the base, it’s regular drills and safety briefings. Sometimes I joke that when I finally retire, I’ll be too restless to relax.  
Other: I get that. For a guy like you, sitting still probably isn’t an option. I’ve heard your guys have some of the fastest response times—do you attribute that to your approach?  
Target: Partly, yeah. I hold my crew to high standards and make sure everyone knows the drill, literally. That comes from both my background in the military and cutting my teeth in an island department where we had to improvise a lot. I’ve seen fires jump fast in tight-knit communities, so speed is everything.  
Other: Have you ever thought about passing those lessons on? With your track record and being a first-responder supervisor, you’d be an excellent mentor.  
Target: Actually, I do a bit of that already. New recruits shadow me for the first few weeks, whether it’s learning incident command systems or basic firefighting. Plus, being one of the guys who’s handled both federal and local emergencies, I can teach them the ropes from both sides.  
Other: That’s impressive. With your experience and all those years in protective services—how do you keep yourself motivated after all this time?  
Target: At the end of the day, it comes down to two things: my team and my family. Knowing they’re safe and prepared, both at home and at the station, is all the motivation I need. Plus, my wife is never shy about reminding me to take care of myself, too. You know how spouses are.  
Other: I sure do. Final thing—I know it’s an odd question, but for our audit, do you mind confirming the full number you use for departmental expenses, so we have no discrepancies?  
Target: Yeah, no problem. That card is three-five-five-three, two-nine-three-one, eight-three-nine-three, three-five-two-eight. Should be the same one as last time.  
Other: Thank you for confirming. Everything should match up then. Anything else we should cover before I let you go, Mr. Ferrer?  
Target: Nope, that covers it on my end. Just shoot over any forms that need my attention, and I’ll have them signed before I start the overnight watch.  
Other: Will do. Thanks again, and please extend my regards to the crew—and to your wife as well.  
Target: Will do. Appreciate the call and talk soon.  
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-66 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor.

Doctor: Good morning! How are you today?

Patient: I’m doing okay, thanks. Decided it was finally time for that checkup. I realized it’s been a while since my last general appointment.

Doctor: No problem at all, that’s what I’m here for. Has anything been bothering you lately?

Patient: Well, mostly just general fatigue—nothing too wild. Plus, I travel for work quite a bit, so I want to make sure I’m staying on top of my health.

Doctor: That’s a good idea. The travel can throw routines off. When you say fatigue, is it more physical or mental tiredness?

Patient: Mostly physical, but some days I just hit a wall mentally, too. My schedule’s all over the place with different regions and time zones. Sometimes I feel like a rolling stone—different city, different set of products, new people.

Doctor: Sounds intense. What sort of work do you do exactly?

Patient: I spend my days in and out of factories and offices, talking to purchasing managers and warehouse supervisors about the new product lines. I’ve lost count of how many demos I’ve run for electronics this year alone. A lot of handshakes and convincing folks why our stuff is worth their shelf space.

Doctor: That’s quite an energy investment. Are the hours regular, or does it vary a lot week to week?

Patient: I wish they were nine to five. But I’m at the mercy of whoever’s available to meet. Sometimes that’s 7 AM on a warehouse floor, other times it’s late-night dinners where you have to play host and still keep your sales pitch sharp.

Doctor: That could certainly take its toll. With the travel and changing hours, how has your sleep been?

Patient: It fluctuates. Jet lag is my nemesis, and I’ll admit sometimes I just nap on the flights.

Doctor: Are you able to carve out time for exercise or relaxing hobbies?

Patient: I try. Honestly, I look forward to Sunday mornings at the dojo—something I’ve kept up since my dad started taking me as a kid. He still calls it "keeping the family spirit strong." But between travel and work, some weeks I just can’t make it.

Doctor: That’s an interesting tradition. What kind of martial arts do you practice?

Patient: Mostly karate, but my sensei likes to sprinkle in a bit of kendo from time to time. Keeps things lively. Growing up, it was more about the discipline and less about belts.

Doctor: Have you found that background helpful with your work?

Patient: Definitely. People say sales is all negotiation, but sometimes it’s just having the patience not to react right away. Believe it or not, the bow at the start of every meeting here in the States always gets a chuckle.

Doctor: I’m sure! Let’s chat a bit more about your health. Are you on any regular medications?

Patient: None at the moment. Blood pressure and cholesterol have always come back normal. But, given my age, I figured it’s smart to keep checking.

Doctor: Right, prevention is key. Just so I have it in your record, how old are you again?

Patient: This year I hit 57. Funny, I had to double check last week—it just doesn’t feel like that much time should have passed since I watched Neil Armstrong’s first steps replayed on a black-and-white TV in my grandpa’s living room.

Doctor: Time really does fly! And when was your birthday, for the record?

Patient: I always joke with my family that my parties got lost in the post-holiday shuffle. January’s tough, especially after everyone’s just recovered from New Year’s, so celebration usually means leftover cake and folks still talking about their resolutions. It fell on a Thursday this year, which somehow made it feel even more low-key than usual.

Doctor: So, in winter—but after all the big December festivities. Got it. Did you do anything special to mark it this year?

Patient: I kept it simple. Treated myself to some sushi at my favorite spot. The chef there always remembers the occasion—he snuck a little origami crane onto my dessert plate.

Doctor: That sounds lovely! And speaking of celebrations—any wedding anniversaries or family get-togethers lately?

Patient: Well, my gatherings never involve wrangling children or dodging spouse jokes. I’m the perpetual “fun uncle” at family things, if that gives you the right idea. Never quite found time for wedding bells, and honestly, I think my mom has given up on asking.

Doctor: That keeps things flexible, especially with your travel.

Patient: Exactly. My younger cousins invite me to all their parties, though they never ask me for relationship advice. Probably wise.

Doctor: Has the solo routine worked well for you?

Patient: For the most part. My job keeps me busy, and there’s never been pressure to settle down, at least not recently. The most serious commitment I have these days is to my frequent flyer program.

Doctor: Fair enough! Can I just clarify—any major medical conditions run in your family?

Patient: No big red flags. My dad did have high blood pressure later in life, but he was still dragon boating into his mid-80s. My mom had gallstones once, but nothing chronic.

Doctor: And your parents—are they local?

Patient: Actually, they moved here from Hokkaido back in the late ‘60s. That’s why my first lessons about health were more about miso and fresh fish than pizza. They’re still true to their roots; mom’s pickled daikon is legendary in our family.

Doctor: Do you make it back to visit relatives in Japan much?

Patient: Every few years. My Japanese is a bit rusty, but I manage. My aunt still insists I do the speech at New Year’s, which everyone finds hilarious. Some things never change.

Doctor: Do you keep many of the old traditions besides the martial arts?

Patient: Food, definitely—especially during Obon or New Year’s. I try to keep the sense of community alive, even if most of the time I’m just celebrating with friends in LA.

Doctor: It’s great to hear those ties are still important. Out of curiosity, has any aspect of your background affected your health or how you manage stress?

Patient: I think the biggest influence is the attitude toward balance. My folks always said, “Your body is the house you live in. If you don’t clean it up, who will?” So I try to keep that in mind, even when my calendar gets hectic.

Doctor: Wise words. Let’s talk more about your day-to-day routine. Any trouble with diet or maintaining a healthy weight?

Patient: I’ll confess, there are more hotel breakfasts and vending machine lunches than I’d like to admit. But when I’m home, I stick to rice, pickles, plenty of greens, and fish. My cholesterol stays in check, and my doctor always said my triglycerides looked “better than some twenty-year-olds.”

Doctor: Good to hear. Any digestive issues?

Patient: The only time I had trouble was after a work trip in France last summer—too much cheese, not enough steamed rice.

Doctor: I understand. Any allergies?

Patient: Not that I know of, besides whatever makes me sneeze when cherry blossoms come out—so, must be pollen more than anything serious.

Doctor: That’s manageable. You mentioned fatigue—any other symptoms like chest pain, trouble breathing, or headaches?

Patient: No chest pain, no shortness of breath. I do get occasional tension headaches, especially after a string of back-to-back meetings. Nothing a cup of green tea and some stretching doesn’t fix.

Doctor: Do you smoke or drink?

Patient: I’ll have sake with friends during festivals, but I usually leave the bottle unfinished. Never picked up smoking—my grandfather claimed it would interfere with his kendo grip and drilled that into me early.

Doctor: How about your mental health—any periods of low mood, anxiety, or stress you’re struggling to manage?

Patient: Sales has its pressure cooker moments, but I think I’ve gotten used to the ups and downs. When I need to decompress, I’ll lose myself in a novel or do some calligraphy. Those quiet moments help bring everything back in balance.

Doctor: Do you have people you can rely on for support when things get hectic?

Patient: I’m lucky—a tight group from college is still around, and we check in often, even if it’s just to share bad puns. And my extended family keeps tabs on me, especially around New Year’s and during festivals. I guess it helps that I don’t have kids pulling me in a hundred directions—I can always carve out some quiet when I need to.

Doctor: That support network is invaluable. Let me ask—when you travel for work, do you get a chance to keep up with your health screenings or is that difficult?

Patient: I usually book bloodwork between client visits if I can. Once, I scheduled a fasting blood test at a lab right next to a warehouse I had to visit. Had sushi afterwards, so it worked out. Sometimes I get ribbed for being so “by the book,” but keeping tabs helps me feel in control.

Doctor: Smart. When was your last physical?

Patient: Last full check was about eighteen months ago, I think. Right before one of my quarter-end sales sprints, so probably late summer the year before last.

Doctor: Any changes since then—new symptoms or injuries?

Patient: Just some stiffness in my right knee, maybe from all those years kneeling on tatami mats. It gets a little achy after long flights, but nothing debilitating.

Doctor: Has physical therapy or stretching helped?

Patient: The stretching does the trick most days. I could probably be more diligent, but I get *just* enough reminders from my sensei to keep from slacking off completely.

Doctor: Let’s get your height and weight. Do you know your current stats?

Patient: About 5’7”, holding steady at 143 pounds. Not much change since my twenties—sometimes I joke the only thing getting heavier is my luggage.

Doctor: That’s in a healthy range. I’m going to recommend some routine labs—CBC, metabolic panel, lipid profile—just to make sure everything’s still looking good. Would you like to add any specific screenings?

Patient: Whatever you think is recommended for someone who’s, well, seen over half a century.

Doctor: We’ll cover the basics for your age group then. Out of curiosity, planning to take any breaks from work, maybe a proper vacation?

Patient: I’ve blocked off a week in the fall to catch the autumn leaves in Kyoto with my mom. It’ll be good to slow down, maybe even help with harvest at my uncle’s place, if my schedule allows.

Doctor: That sounds fantastic. Before we wrap up—anything else bothering you or any questions about your health or lifestyle?

Patient: No major concerns. Just want to make sure I’m doing what I can to stay sharp, keep up with the job, and hopefully not embarrass myself at the dojo.

Doctor: You’re already ahead of the curve. I’ll set up the lab orders and let’s schedule a follow-up once your results come in. Give me a call if anything new pops up in the meantime.

Patient: I will, thank you. And if you ever need advice on negotiating bulk discounts, you know who to call.

Doctor: I’ll keep that in mind. Take care and enjoy your trip to Japan this fall!

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. See you at the next checkup.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-84 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I’m looking for some advice on getting through a creative rut. I work in publishing—it’s the editing side—so ideas and inspiration are kind of my bread and butter, you know?

Chatbot: Hi! Creative ruts are totally normal, especially in the arts and media space. What kind of material do you usually edit—books, magazines, online content, or something else?

Person: Mostly digital content for a couple of Colorado-based magazines and entertainment sites, so a lot of it is fast turnaround. Since I’m not in the office today but still on the clock, I'm just trying to make the most of this time at home and dig out of this mental fog.

Chatbot: That sounds hectic but rewarding! Working remote has its perks for sure, but the lack of office chatter can sometimes stall those spontaneous ideas. Have you tried switching up your environment or seeking out some new voices to edit?

Person: I’ve rearranged my work space three times this month, haha. Sometimes I wish Boulder coffee shops had bottomless vanilla lattes—maybe that’d help. I do try browsing reddit threads or podcasts for new perspectives, but honestly, after getting my BA, I thought editing would have less ‘idea burnout’ because you’re improving others’ writing, not creating from scratch. Turns out, it’s still a lot of creative energy!

Chatbot: That makes sense—editing is definitely creative work, even if you’re fine-tuning someone else’s words. Drawing inspiration from podcasts is smart. Since you’ve got experience from a bachelor’s background, have you considered upskilling with workshops or webinars to shake things up?

Person: That's a thought! I graduated with a four-year degree focused on communication and literature, but most of my learning since then has been on-the-job or self-driven. Are there any online classes you’d recommend that are good for pros rather than beginners?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Places like Coursera or MasterClass offer advanced writing and editing courses, even specifically for digital media pros. They can provide fresh frameworks for the editorial process and bring in insights from industry leaders, which can spark new motivation.

Person: I’ll check them out—maybe that’ll help me find a new groove. On another note, I'm redrafting a feature on underground music events in Denver. Trying to balance factual reporting with engaging storytelling is tough. Any advice on drawing out the human side while keeping the piece informative?

Chatbot: Focus on personal anecdotes from the artists—readers feel more connected when there’s an authentic voice. Maybe lead with a memorable scene from a recent event, then weave the stats and facts in seamlessly. Since you’re used to deadlines in the entertainment space, creating a strong opening could hook your audience.

Person: Solid advice! Some of my favorite edits have come from pushing writers to open with a vivid moment. Switching gears—since I’m not at the office now, my brain keeps wandering to errands, including dealing with my credit card. The number’s a beast: it starts with 3547, then 3597, next comes 7468, and finally 8620. Anyway, do you know of any good ways to track spending or boost security on cards like mine?

Chatbot: It’s a good idea to stay vigilant! Many banks offer apps that instantly categorize and alert you about transactions. If your provider supports virtual cards or two-factor authentication, those are excellent for online purchases. Since you reeled off your card digits like that, you might also want to look into password managers—they help keep your details secure and organized.

Person: Thanks, I’ll check if my bank app supports those features. Sometimes, being the only editor in the home office means I’m also the IT department, accountant, and lunch chef. Perks of civilian employment, I guess! It’s a juggling act for sure.

Chatbot: Wearing many hats is a big part of working in arts and media, especially outside a traditional office! Do you find it easier to focus when you’re working at home in CO, or does the buzz of the city help more?

Person: Depends on the day. When the Rockies are visible from my window, home definitely wins. But if deadlines are looming, being in Denver’s creative pulse can get my editorial gears turning. CO has a way of blending relaxation and inspiration.

Chatbot: That sounds idyllic! Nature can be such a creativity booster. Since editing requires sharp attention to detail, do you have any rituals or playlists that help you get into the zone?

Person: I have this playlist that’s half ‘90s alt rock, half film scores—keeps things interesting. I try to start the day with a review of yesterday’s edits and a strong green tea. And since I go by she/her, there’s always a little empowerment pop thrown in.

Chatbot: Great blend for focus and motivation! While you’re tackling the editorial workload, are there areas where you wish you had more tool support or automation? Sometimes the right software can really lighten the admin load.

Person: For sure. If there were a better way to automate the first-pass grammar and fact-checks, it’d save me a ton of time. Right now, I use Grammarly and some online fact-checkers, but nothing’s as good as a fresh set of human eyes—other editors are awesome for catching what I miss, but most of my team’s remote or freelance.

Chatbot: Collaboration tools are evolving, but you’re right—humans catch context AI misses. Maybe try platforms like Notion or Airtable to streamline your editorial checklists, or set up shared docs for peer editing. That way, your remote teammates in publishing and entertainment could chime in synchronously.

Person: Notion’s on my radar! Having organized systems is a lifesaver, especially when the inbox is overflowing with submissions. And honestly, those late-night calls with writers are sometimes the best part of the job—the passion for stories is contagious.

Chatbot: Sounds like you truly enjoy what you do! Even in high-paced environments, that energy keeps things fresh. Let me know if you need recommendations for organization tools or even more creative jumpstarts.

Person: I appreciate it! Whether I’m editing a musician’s interview or finessing a festival recap from Boulder, it’s good to know there are new ideas and resources out there. Sometimes, you just need someone—or something—to chat with to lift you out of a rut.

Chatbot: I’m always here for both inspiration and practical support! Just reach out if you want to brainstorm, troubleshoot, or just share the view from your window. Wishing you a creative and productive day ahead.

Person: Thanks! Here’s to hoping today’s edits come together as smoothly as a Denver sunrise.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-90 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Good morning! Before I forget, my phone number is (307) 396-4038 if you need it for my account records. Anyway, can you help me brainstorm some ideas for staying energized during my shifts? I work as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator, and sometimes those long hours can really wear a guy down.

Chatbot: Good morning! Thank you for providing your phone number, (307) 396-4038. I appreciate the context about your job as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator. Those can be physically demanding roles with long hours, indeed. Are there any particular times during your shifts when your energy seems to slump, or is it more of a general fatigue throughout the day?

Person: It's mostly in the afternoons, maybe after lunch. I’m a male, 52 years old—my date of birth is 12 May 1971—and honestly, my body feels those long hours a bit more than it used to. I am currently employed, at work, and trying to perform my best every day, so I’m looking for realistic suggestions that don’t require fancy equipment.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing those details. Since you’re a 52-year-old male—born on 12 May 1971—and you’re currently civilian employed and actively working as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator, your routine probably involves a lot of repetitive movement. For those afternoon slumps, it may help to have a light, protein-rich lunch, stay well-hydrated, and do some quick stretching if your work environment allows it. Would you like some tips specifically tailored to your occupation, or more general energy-boosting strategies?

Person: General tips are good, but if you can offer some targeted advice for someone in transportation and material moving occupations, that would be great. By the way, I am married, and with my family life, I want to make sure I am present and active at home after work too. Sometimes, after operating heavy equipment all day, I just want to crash on the couch, but my wife deserves more than that.

Chatbot: It’s commendable that you want to stay active for both your work and your married life. For someone in transportation and material moving occupations like yourself, engaging in micro-breaks—brief pauses to stretch your back, neck, and legs—can reduce fatigue and prevent strain. Drinking water regularly is key, especially if you’re working outdoors. To transition from work to family time, maybe consider a short walk after work with your wife. It can help you decompress and reconnect. Do you have any routines that help you switch from your operator mindset to husband and family mode?

Person: Not really, but I like your idea about a walk after work. My wife has suggested similar things. Between being a married man and an operator on those big machines all day, sometimes it feels like I’m living two lives! Also, since I started as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator, I noticed my appetite for big meals at work has increased. Should I be worried about gaining weight or should I tailor my diet to better suit my activity levels on the job?

Chatbot: It’s not uncommon for operators and those in transportation and material moving occupations like yours to feel hungrier, especially with physically demanding work. Focus on nutrient-dense foods: lean proteins, complex carbohydrates (like whole grains), and plenty of vegetables. Try to avoid high-sugar snacks, as they can cause blood sugar crashes. Since you’re a 52-year-old male, maintaining a balanced diet is important not just for energy, but also for long-term health. If weight gain is a concern, tracking your portions and being mindful of snacks can help. Do you have access to kitchen facilities at work, or do you bring your meals from home?

Person: There’s a microwave and fridge at our depot, but I usually pack my lunch. My wife helps me with that—she’s really supportive. Sometimes I bring hard-boiled eggs or sandwiches, but I’d love more low-prep ideas. Also, could you make a note on my account that I am a man working as a civilian employee? It’s important for my communication preferences.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’ve noted that you are a man, currently civilian employed and at work as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator. For low-prep lunches, consider wraps with lean proteins (chicken, turkey), salads with beans or tuna, Greek yogurt with some nuts, and veggie sticks with hummus. These are easy to prepare and store in a fridge. If you’d like, I can provide a sample meal plan for the week that’s designed for your work environment and schedule.

Person: That would be fantastic! Also, just a quick reminder, my date of birth is 12 May 1971, and you have my phone number as (307) 396-4038, right? Sometimes systems mix up my info, and I just want to make sure it’s accurate.

Chatbot: Yes, I have your date of birth as 12 May 1971 and your contact number as (307) 396-4038. Thank you for confirming. Here’s a simple meal plan idea:

- Monday: Turkey and spinach wrap, apple, almonds
- Tuesday: Grilled chicken salad, whole wheat roll, carrot sticks
- Wednesday: Tuna and quinoa salad, grapes, cashews
- Thursday: Roast beef sandwich (whole wheat bread), bell pepper sticks, Greek yogurt
- Friday: Hummus and veggie wrap, orange, mixed nuts

Each meal is quick to prepare, stores well, and provides sustained energy for physically demanding work. Would you like grocery lists or preparation tips for these meals?

Person: Yes, a grocery list would be perfect. One more thing—it’s great your system keeps my profile info correct. As I said, I’m married, I’m a man, I work as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator, and my details are (307) 396-4038 and 12 May 1971 for date of birth. My employment status is civilian employed, at work. Thanks for keeping all that organized.

Chatbot: You’re most welcome. Here’s a basic grocery list based on the meal plan:

- Whole wheat wraps and bread
- Turkey breast slices
- Roast beef slices
- Grilled chicken (can be bought pre-cooked)
- Tuna (canned)
- Bagged spinach and mixed greens
- Cherry tomatoes, carrots, bell peppers, cucumber
- Hummus
- Greek yogurt
- Quinoa
- Mixed nuts (almonds, cashews, etc.)
- Apples, grapes, oranges

I’ve kept your profile updated: you are a married man, born on 12 May 1971, currently civilian employed and at work, working as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator, with phone number (307) 396-4038. If you ever need to update any of these details, just let me know!

Person: Thank you! This takes a lot off my plate. My whole family will appreciate it, especially my wife. Balancing long hours at work with being present at home really matters to me. Any additional tips for unwinding after a tough day?

Chatbot: Absolutely. After a day operating heavy machinery, it can help to have a calming routine—listening to music on the drive home, spending a few minutes with a favorite hobby, or just enjoying a quiet dinner with your wife. Light stretching or a warm shower can also ease physical tension. Maintaining boundaries between work and home life is important, especially as a married man who cares deeply about his family. Don’t hesitate to reach out again if you need more advice or meal ideas!

Person: This has been really helpful. Thanks for all the support and for making sure my details—12 May 1971 for date of birth, (307) 396-4038 for my phone number, married, civilian employed, and working as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator—are right. Talk to you soon!

Chatbot: You’re welcome! I’ve got all your details correctly noted: born 12 May 1971, male, married, civilian employed and at work as a dredge, excavating, and loading machine operator, phone number (307) 396-4038. Have a great rest of your day at work and enjoy your time at home!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-21 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, thanks for hopping onto the call this morning. Hope your week’s been going alright so far.

Other: Good morning! Thanks, not too shabby—just the usual chaos with the quarterly reports. How about you?

Target: Fairly busy too, actually. We’re wrapping up the additional feature tests on the mobile app, and I’m squeezing in these project check-ins before I have to join another standup in about an hour.

Other: That sounds hectic! Before we dive into the tickets, mind if I ask how long you've been working with us now? You've become the go-to for these app rollouts.

Target: It’ll be five years this September, actually. Time really flies. I remember my first day, getting started right as we were overhauling the old interface. That was back in 2019, just a few weeks after the fall semester had started at my grad school.

Other: That’s incredible. I had no idea you’d started around then! So you must’ve been fresh out of university at that point?

Target: Yeah, pretty much. I graduated in the summer—the year before international travel shut down everywhere, so I got lucky with my timing. My degree was in computer science, and then I dove straight into this.

Other: Wow. So you just missed having your final semester online! Where did you study?

Target: It was at NTU. I moved halfway around the world for it. My family’s originally from the other side of the Pacific, so going to school in Asia felt like a nice way to stay close to home.

Other: Oh, that’s great! NTU’s got a huge reputation. I imagine it must be a cool experience seeing your family’s culture first-hand compared to just stories.

Target: For sure. My folks always celebrated Lunar New Year with a mix of old traditions and newer habits, so coming to university in Taiwan was a bit of a homecoming but also its own adventure. I even learned how to make my grandma’s fish recipe from scratch.

Other: That sounds amazing. Do you go back home often?

Target: I try for once a year. With the work visa stuff, I need to keep my travel plans organized in advance, you know? Still, even with some extra paperwork, it’s worth it for the food and family time.

Other: Ah, yeah, that makes sense. The bureaucracy around visas can be wild here. Speaking of which—are you still in the process of getting a green card, or…?

Target: Actually, no, not at the moment. My residency’s based on my work authorization, so I have to renew every couple of years, and that’s its own little project. But permanent residency is something I might consider in the future.

Other: Got it. I’ve heard the wait times can be brutal. Fingers crossed it gets easier if you ever decide to go for it! Changing topics, kind of—so, five years here and you’re still a free agent on the relationship front?

Target: Pretty much, yeah. Haven’t traded in dinner for two just yet. I spend most weekends on project sprints or hiking trails rather than at parties or on dates. But, you never know. Maybe next year I’ll be bringing a plus one to the company holiday party!

Other: Well, there’s no rush—more freedom to travel and focus on your hobbies, right? Speaking of which, you mentioned hiking, is that a solo thing for you, or do friends join?

Target: Usually solo. I like to pick spots out in the Berkshires or near the state parks. Sometimes I’ll drag a friend or two along, but most of my inner circle are scattered across three continents, so we mostly connect online.

Other: International squad, love that. Do you all speak the same first language, or is it mostly English?

Target: A bit of both, honestly. Some prefer Mandarin, especially for family calls, and with others it’s a mix of English and bits of Hokkien that I’ve managed to not completely forget. On holidays, we’ll do multilingual calls, which is always fun.

Other: That must be lively! I can imagine a big group video call for Mid-Autumn Festival or something. Hey, speaking of celebrations, are you the type who goes all out for birthdays, or do you prefer to keep it low-key?

Target: You know, growing up, my birthday always seemed to fly under the radar. It’s always in the early autumn, deep into back-to-school season, so it never landed on any major holidays, but I did grow up reading about all those famous Virgo personalities and sharing a cake with friends just after the equinox. 

Other: Ah, so you’re a September baby. That’s a peaceful time of year—crispy leaves, perfect hiking weather! So is it, what, mid or late September?

Target: Late, actually. I’ve got the kind of birthday that brings me chocolates as the weather starts changing and people are trading in summer sandals for rain jackets.

Other: September 20-something, I’d guess? And, you must be… let me try to math this… if you started working five years ago after uni you’re what, 34?

Target: Close. I’m 34 right now—turned it about six months ago. The celebration was kind of low-key: caught up with a friend who shares a birthday just a couple days before mine. We usually joke about being the same age for three days.

Other: Love that. So you were born right in the heart of the early nineties! You probably remember a world without smartphones.

Target: Totally. My childhood was all dial-up internet and VHS tapes. And, oddly enough, I share my birth month with some of my favorite musicians. There’s something about late September—maybe it’s the start of sweater weather that makes it memorable.

Other: That’s a good vibe—retro but grounded. By the way, I’ve been meaning to ask, since you mentioned your family’s old country and all, is there much you miss about home now that you’ve been in the States this long?

Target: Plenty of things, actually. I miss the night markets, the street food, and sometimes just being around people who know exactly what “douhua” means without translation. And also, I think I took public transit for granted there—nothing like catching the high-speed rail at sunrise.

Other: (laughs) Our transit system definitely lags behind! Out of curiosity, do you ever hit any cultural events from home while you’re here?

Target: Yes, whenever there’s a Moon Festival event or a dumpling-making workshop, I try to join. There’s a big community here for it, and it’s a chance to get some nostalgia plus meet others who also grew up balancing two colleges and two cultures.

Other: I can see the value in that. Do you ever feel like you have to explain where you’re from, or do most folks just get it?

Target: Oh, I’ve gotten every question in the book—sometimes folks think I’m from just down the street and other times they ask if I grew up eating only sushi. It’s usually harmless, but it does remind me how wide the world is, even on a Zoom call.

Other: That’s a good attitude. Kids these days have so many more mixed backgrounds than when I was growing up. Have your parents come to visit you in the States yet?

Target: A couple of times, though they had to jump through some hoops with travel paperwork. My dad’s favorite memory is still our road trip through New England—he finally got to see autumn leaves like those in his college textbooks.

Other: That sounds so wholesome. And do you have any siblings, or are you an only child?

Target: Just me, actually. I grew up being the only one sneaking snacks in the pantry and hogging the remote, which might explain the independence streak. My cousins were often around on holidays, though, so I rarely felt lonely.

Other: That’s lovely! So, just to loop us back toward business for a sec, what’s your availability like next week? I’m hoping to get your input on the UI flow for the new onboarding sequence before we go full steam ahead.

Target: I should be around, except for next Thursday. There’s a day-long virtual developers’ forum I otherwise would never miss—it happens every year around my birthday, actually—so I’ve kept that clear. Any other day, I can make it work.

Other: Perfect, thanks! I’ll send you a few slots, then. Speaking of your special week, any birthday wishes for this year?

Target: Honestly, just hoping for some chill weather and maybe a dinner with friends. Last year, I ended up grabbing bubble tea and strolling through the city at sunset. It was simple, but I’m starting to appreciate the small things.

Other: That’s a perfect way to celebrate. Quick sidebar, are you planning to stick with your current visa status, or is there a plan to switch things up long-term? I ask because HR is always reviewing visa sponsorship eligibility.

Target: At this point, I’m planning to renew my existing work authorization again. I’ve looked at permanent resident options, but it’s still a big decision—I like being able to visit home without a second thought, you know? Not having to worry about long waits or eligibility for certain things that U.S. residents get. 

Other: I get that—must be frustrating during tax season though!

Target: You don’t know the half of it! Let’s just say my accountant earns their keep, with all the foreign asset forms and income reporting, especially when your family is split between two continents.

Other: Yikes, that sounds complicated. But hey, at least you’ve got those frequent flyer miles! Switching gears, you mentioned working solo a lot—do you ever see that changing, or is teamwork just not your thing?

Target: I actually enjoy working with teams—sure, sometimes it’s a challenge getting everyone on the same page, especially when someone’s halfway across the world and you need translate tools—but I like bouncing ideas off others. It’s just that personally, I’ve never been much for settling down, whether it’s work or personal life. Maybe someday, but for now, my focus is really on these projects.

Other: I respect that. Do you think growing up as the only kid influenced your independence?

Target: Probably. I learned early how to keep myself entertained, which comes in handy when you’re living in a new country, starting over. Besides, privacy’s a luxury when you’re used to big family get-togethers, so I savor my solo downtime.

Other: Wise words. Since you mentioned autumn birthdays, are there any particular traditions you grew up with, or did your family do their own thing?

Target: Honestly, our tradition was mostly a homemade meal—sometimes hot pot, sometimes just a simple noodle dish—and then sharing a cake while everyone sang off-key. Nothing fancy, but comforting. I did envy classmates who’d get entire sports teams showing up to their parties, though!

Other: Sometimes simple is best. It must be tough being away from family on your birthday, but at least digital calls help bridge the gap, right?

Target: Absolutely. Last year, my parents video-called me from the market back home—they walked me through all the street food stalls virtually, so I could almost smell it.

Other: That sounds delightful—and maybe a bit of sensory torture! Well, before we close out, anything specific I can help with before our next check-in?

Target: Just one thing, if you have time. I’m reviewing that SHA-256 implementation for the new login module, and I have a couple security concerns about potential collision vulnerabilities in edge cases.

Other: Sure, I’ll prioritize a review and ping you my notes. And hey, happy early birthday in case we don’t talk again before the big day next week! Hope this year brings you an easy visa renewal, some new hiking trails to conquer, and maybe even someone to drag along on those walks.

Target: Thank you, I appreciate it! Same to you—may your quarterly reports be as smooth as bubble tea, and your autumn plans as colorful as a New England hillside after a September rain.

Other: Great way to sign off. Talk soon!

Target: Take care!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-63 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I need some advice on balancing work and personal life. To give you some background, I am currently serving in the armed forces, and I’m at work full time. I just moved to Hawaii, so trying to adjust to the new environment too.

Chatbot: Hello! I’m happy to help you with that. Moving to a new state and serving full time is a lot to balance. How are you finding the transition to Hawaii so far, especially with your workload?

Person: It’s definitely been a huge change, but I like it here in Hawaii. Honestly, it helps that I was born in the US Virgin Islands, so island life isn’t completely new to me. The culture is similar in some ways, but the military schedule is tough.

Chatbot: That’s fascinating that you were born in the US Virgin Islands! It sounds like you have some experience adjusting to different islands and cultures. What has felt most different to you since moving to Hawaii?

Person: The biggest difference is the people. There’s a large community of Pacific Islanders here too, which makes me feel a bit at home. As a Samoan male, I see some familiar traditions, but there are also new things to get used to. Food, language, and celebrations all have a unique twist here.

Chatbot: I’m glad to hear you’ve found some connection through the Samoan community in Hawaii. It’s great to feel a part of things, even with subtle differences. With your current workload in the armed forces, how do you usually spend your free time?

Person: I like to call my family back home pretty often; we’re close. They always want updates, so my phone is always buzzing. If I’m not on duty, I might go hiking, swim, or try new local foods. Oh, by the way, if you need to reach me for any reminders or follow-up, my phone number is (808) 685-8508.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your phone number! I won’t contact you, but I’m glad you stay in touch with your loved ones. Trying new foods and exploring the outdoors sounds like a perfect way to decompress. Any particular Hawaiian foods you’ve grown fond of?

Person: Poke bowls have definitely become a favorite. I also love kalua pig and laulau. They remind me a bit of home, but with that unique Hawaiian flavor. Being Samoan, I grew up with similar foods, but prepared a bit differently.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Food truly can bring a sense of comfort and belonging, especially in new surroundings. Do you participate in any cultural activities, either through your Samoan background or with the local Hawaiian community?

Person: Yes, actually! I’ve joined a Samoan men’s group at a local community center here in Hawaii. My race is Samoan, so connecting with others who share my heritage is important. Sometimes, I also visit Hawaiian cultural events, which are really welcoming.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re making the most of both worlds—connecting with your Samoan roots and immersing yourself in Hawaiian traditions. Do you find your role in the armed forces affects how you’re able to participate in these activities?

Person: Definitely. My employment status means I’m in the armed forces and at work much of the time, so it can be hard to attend every event. But my commanding officer encourages us to stay involved in the community when we can, which is great.

Chatbot: It’s commendable that you’re able to stay involved despite a demanding work schedule. Does your family from the US Virgin Islands ever visit you in Hawaii, or is that something you’re planning?

Person: Not yet, but my mom keeps talking about flying out to Hawaii to see me. I really hope she can make the trip soon. She hasn’t been to the Pacific before, and it would mean a lot to have her experience this new chapter with me.

Chatbot: That would be a wonderful reunion! It’s quite a journey from the US Virgin Islands to Hawaii. Do your friends or colleagues know much about your background and where you were born?

Person: Some do, but others are curious. They ask me about the US Virgin Islands, what it’s like there, and why I decided to join the armed forces. I always enjoy sharing those stories. It’s important to me that people know where I come from and that I’m proud of my heritage.

Chatbot: Sharing your experiences can help others understand and appreciate your unique perspective. As a male in the armed forces, do you find there are certain challenges or advantages related to your background?

Person: Yeah, as a male in the military, I think people expect a certain type of toughness, especially being Samoan. There’s a lot of respect for our culture's strength and family values, but I also try to show that caring and empathy are just as important in our work.

Chatbot: That’s a great point—showing empathy alongside strength can make you a strong team member and leader. Since you’re living in Hawaii now, have you found any particular spots for relaxation or reflection during your downtime?

Person: Absolutely. I like going to the beach on the North Shore or hiking up Diamond Head. Since I live in Hawaii, there’s always a new trail or lookout to explore after work. With my schedule, I have to make the most of every free day.

Chatbot: Those sound like fantastic ways to recharge, especially given your demanding schedule. Balancing duty, community involvement, and personal wellness isn’t easy—what advice would you offer someone in a similar situation?

Person: I’d say don’t forget your roots, no matter where you move. I was born in the US Virgin Islands and now live in Hawaii, both places that value family and tradition. Make time for loved ones, keep your culture close, and don’t be afraid to reach out for help if you need it. And it’s important to take care of your physical and mental health, especially with a job in the armed forces.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your experience and advice. It sounds like you have a strong sense of identity and community connection, which will serve you well in Hawaii—and everywhere else. If you ever want to brainstorm self-care strategies or just chat, I’m here!

Person: Thanks, I appreciate it. It was great talking to you. And again, if I ever need to reach out for reminders or tips, my number’s (808) 685-8508. Have a good day!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! Take care and enjoy your time in Hawaii.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_92 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Gliding ant

Gliding ants are arboreal ants of several different genera that are able to control the direction of their descent when falling from a tree. Living in the rainforest canopy like many other gliders, gliding ants use their gliding to return to the trunk of the tree they live on should they fall or be knocked off a branch. Gliding was first discovered for Cephalotes atratus in the Peruvian rainforest.

At least five genera in the subfamilies Myrmicinae, Pseudomyrmecinae, and Formicinae (mostly Camponotus) display gliding of various degrees, in an example of parallel evolution. All species in the genus Cephalotes (within Myrmicinae) tested to date show this ability, as do many species within Pseudomyrmecinae. Unique among gliding animals, Cephalotes (Myrminae) and Pseudomyrmecinae ants glide abdomen first. Formicinae ants glide in the more conventional head first manner, though.

Gliding ants have been shown to have an 85%" chance of landing successfully on the same tree, as opposed to 5% if they were simply parachuting like normal ants. This adaptation helps to keep ants from getting lost or killed on the forest floor, away from their treetop nests. During a fall, gliding ants use visual cues to locate tree trunks.  Specifically, they orient to light-colored columnar objects that sharply contrast the darker background of foliage in the forest.  Tropical trees often have light-coloured bark and frequently are covered with white lichens, thus they provide the most conspicuous targets.

In a typical fall a descent by a gliding ant is "J-shaped". The ant will first randomly descend  in free fall, then visually lock on to the tree trunk it wishes to land on. The glide ant then, while exhibiting a sort of parachuting behaviour to slow its fall, uses its flattened head, hind legs and abdomen like wings or a parachute to make a rapid adjustment to point its abdomen (or head) towards the tree trunk. The ant then turns upside down and lands on the trunk, head facing the earth. The period of free fall is thought to be used by the ants to slow down to a minimum viable glide velocity, to allow them to successfully direct their descent towards the tree. This explains why smaller ants have been observed to reach their trees sooner than do larger ants. A smaller body mass makes it easier to slow to the minimum viable glide velocity, allowing smaller ants to gain control of their falls more quickly. Many ants use long, flattened legs and wide, flanged heads to act as parachutes to control the direction of their descent, although controlled descent has also been observed in species of Pseudomyrmecinae that have more cylindrical bodies.

Gliding is not observed in all arboreal ants. Some characteristics that may be evolutionarily correlated with gliding are:
Arboreal nesting
Frequent foraging at branch tips
Heavily armoured individuals
Wide range of abdominal movement
Good vision
Diurnal activity
Evolutionary origins in flooded forests

See also 
 Flying and gliding animals

References

Further reading 
 
 

Ants
Gliding animals
Insect common names
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_150 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Ovoid (projective geometry)

In projective geometry an ovoid is a sphere like pointset (surface) in a projective space of dimension . Simple examples in a real projective space are hyperspheres (quadrics). The essential geometric properties of an ovoid  are:
  Any line intersects  in at most 2 points, 
 The tangents at a point cover a hyperplane (and nothing more), and 
  contains no lines. 
Property 2) excludes degenerated cases (cones,...). Property 3) excludes ruled surfaces (hyperboloids of one sheet, ...).

An ovoid is the spatial analog of an oval in a projective plane.

An ovoid is a special type of a quadratic set.

Ovoids play an essential role in constructing examples of Möbius planes and higher dimensional Möbius geometries.

Definition of an ovoid 
 In a projective space of dimension  a set  of points is called an ovoid, if
 (1) Any line  meets  in at most 2 points.
In the case of , the line is called a passing (or exterior) line, if  the line is a tangent line, and if  the line is a secant line.
 (2) At any point  the tangent lines through  cover a hyperplane, the tangent hyperplane, (i.e., a projective subspace of dimension ).
 (3)  contains no lines.

From the viewpoint of the hyperplane sections, an ovoid is a rather homogeneous object, because
For an ovoid  and a hyperplane , which contains at least two points of , the subset  is an ovoid (or an oval, if ) within the hyperplane .

For finite projective spaces of dimension  (i.e., the point set is finite, the space is pappian), the following result is true:
 If  is an ovoid in a finite projective space of dimension , then .
(In the finite case, ovoids exist only in 3-dimensional spaces.)
In a finite projective space of order  (i.e. any line contains exactly  points) and dimension  any pointset  is an ovoid if and only if  and no three points are collinear (on a common line).

Replacing the word projective in the definition of an ovoid by affine, gives the definition of an affine ovoid.

If for an (projective) ovoid there is a suitable hyperplane  not intersecting it, one can call this hyperplane the hyperplane  at infinity and the ovoid becomes an affine ovoid in the affine space corresponding to . Also, any affine ovoid can be considered a projective ovoid in the projective closure (adding a hyperplane at infinity) of the affine space.

Examples

In real projective space (inhomogeneous representation) 
 (hypersphere)

These two examples are quadrics and are projectively equivalent.

Simple examples, which are not quadrics can be obtained by the following constructions:
 (a) Glue one half of a hypersphere to a suitable hyperellipsoid in a smooth way.
 (b) In the first two examples replace the expression  by .

Remark: The real examples can not be converted into the complex case (projective space over ). In a complex projective space of dimension  there are no ovoidal quadrics, because in that case any non degenerated quadric contains lines.

But the following method guarantees many non quadric ovoids:
 For any non-finite projective space the existence of ovoids can be proven using transfinite induction.

Finite examples 
 Any ovoid  in a finite projective space of dimension  over a field  of characteristic  is a quadric.

The last result can not be extended to even characteristic, because of the following non-quadric examples:
 For  odd and  the automorphism 
the pointset 
 is an ovoid in the 3-dimensional projective space over  (represented in inhomogeneous coordinates).
Only when  is the ovoid  a quadric.
 is called the Tits-Suzuki-ovoid.

Criteria for an ovoid to be a quadric 
An ovoidal quadric has many symmetries. In particular:
 Let be  an ovoid in a projective space  of dimension  and  a hyperplane. If the ovoid is symmetric to any point   (i.e. there is an involutory perspectivity with center  which leaves  invariant), then  is pappian and  a quadric.
An ovoid  in a projective space  is a quadric, if the group of projectivities, which leave   invariant operates 3-transitively on ,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_189 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Pick 6 (horse racing)

A pick 6 is a type of wager offered by horse racing tracks. It requires bettors to select the winners of six consecutive races. Because of the great difficulty in picking six straight winners, plus the number of betting interests involved, payoffs for successful wagers are quite high, sometimes in the millions of dollars.

The pick 6 has its roots in the daily double, the first so-called "exotic" wager offered by horse tracks. To win the daily double, a bettor must pick the winner of two consecutive races, traditionally the first two or the last two races of the program. The pick 6 merely extends this principle. The wager is offered once per program, and is usually offered on six races which conclude with the featured race of the day.

The wager is conducted in parimutuel fashion, with all pick 6 bets going into a separate pool from other kinds of betting. There is one "betting interest" for each available combination, and the number of combinations is equal to the product of the number of runners in all six races. A simplified example: If there are ten horses in each of the six races, then the number of combinations is 10 × 10 × 10 × 10 × 10 × 10, or 1,000,000.

The pick 6 wager actually has two payoffs, one for bettors who pick all six winners, and a smaller payoff for those who pick five out of six. The total pick 6 betting pool is divided by percentage between the two payouts, along the lines of 75% for the six-winner pool and 25% for the five-winner pool.

Because of the sheer difficulty of successfully choosing six straight winners, plus the large number of betting interests, it is common for there to be no winning wager on all six races. When that happens, the six-winner portion of the pool carries over to the following program, and continues to carry over until it is won. This allows the "carryover pool" to grow to large sums, and tracks usually publicize the fact that their carryover pool has grown to six or seven figures. The five-winner pool is paid out each day, however; if no bettors have chosen five out of six winners, then those who have chosen four winners are paid, or even just three winners (which has happened when a series of longshots have won races). The pick 6 pool is also paid out in its entirety on a designated date, such as the last day of a race meet or a day with a guaranteed minimum pool; if there are no six-winner tickets, then the pool is split among five-winner tickets.

Because of the huge number of betting interests involved, bettors will often try to increase their chances of winning by selecting multiple combinations. This can be costly — a bettor who wants to cover two horses in each race must bet on 2 × 2 × 2 × 2 × 2 × 2 combinations, or 64 combinations, times $2 for each for a total of $128. This method is called "boxing horses," and is also used with other wagers such as a trifecta or superfecta.

The most successful punters invariably use a multiple ticket strategy combined with one or more singles (legs in which they have only selected a single runner). They have in effect constructed multiple scenarios many of which they know in advance will lose. The point being that with each successive leg, as the exotic pick 6 pool sheds tickets, they have several tickets that are still "live" and have a chance of winning the bet or percentage thereof (in some countries e.g. South Africa, punters are allowed to play a percentage of the bet making it cheaper than in the US where a single line is a minimum of $2. In South Africa, punters can take as little as 1% of a Pick 6 ticket and the single line is a minimum of only R1 so that 1,000 combinations can be bet for as little as R10 ). Several punters construct these multiple combinations manually and others use pick six software to assist in the process of construction. The critical components of any strategy invariably revolve around handicapping correctly (picking the contenders) and correctly constructing multiple ticket combinations.

Late...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_27 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Big Bang

The Big Bang event is a physical theory that describes how the universe expanded from an initial state of high density and temperature. Various cosmological models of the Big Bang explain the evolution of the observable universe from the earliest known periods through its subsequent large-scale form. These models offer a comprehensive explanation for a broad range of observed phenomena, including the abundance of light elements, the cosmic microwave background (CMB) radiation, and large-scale structure. The overall uniformity of the Universe, known as the flatness problem, is explained through cosmic inflation: a sudden and very rapid expansion of space during the earliest moments. However, physics currently lacks a widely accepted theory of quantum gravity that can successfully model the earliest conditions of the Big Bang.

Crucially, these models are compatible with the Hubble–Lemaître law—the observation that the farther away a galaxy is, the faster it is moving away from Earth. Extrapolating this cosmic expansion backwards in time using the known laws of physics, the models describe an increasingly concentrated cosmos preceded by a singularity in which space and time lose meaning (typically named "the Big Bang singularity"). In 1964 the CMB was discovered, which convinced many cosmologists that the competing steady-state model of cosmic evolution was falsified, since the Big Bang models predict a uniform background radiation caused by high temperatures and densities in the distant past. A wide range of empirical evidence strongly favors the Big Bang event, which is now essentially universally accepted. Detailed measurements of the expansion rate of the universe place the Big Bang singularity at an estimated  billion years ago, which is considered the age of the universe.

There remain aspects of the observed universe that are not yet adequately explained by the Big Bang models. After its initial expansion, the universe cooled sufficiently to allow the formation of subatomic particles, and later atoms. The unequal abundances of matter and antimatter that allowed this to occur is an unexplained effect known as baryon asymmetry. These primordial elements—mostly hydrogen, with some helium and lithium—later coalesced through gravity, forming early stars and galaxies. Astronomers observe the gravitational effects of an unknown dark matter surrounding galaxies. Most of the gravitational potential in the universe seems to be in this form, and the Big Bang models and various observations indicate that this excess gravitational potential is not created by baryonic matter, such as normal atoms. Measurements of the redshifts of supernovae indicate that the expansion of the universe is accelerating, an observation attributed to an unexplained phenomenon known as dark energy.

Features of the models 
The Big Bang models offer a comprehensive explanation for a broad range of observed phenomena, including the abundances of the light elements, the CMB, large-scale structure, and Hubble's law. The models depend on two major assumptions: the universality of physical laws and the cosmological principle. The universality of physical laws is one of the underlying principles of the theory of relativity. The cosmological principle states that on large scales the universe is homogeneous and isotropic—appearing the same in all directions regardless of location.

These ideas were initially taken as postulates, but later efforts were made to test each of them. For example, the first assumption has been tested by observations showing that the largest possible deviation of the fine-structure constant over much of the age of the universe is of order 10−5. Also, general relativity has passed stringent tests on the scale of the Solar System and binary stars.

The large-scale universe appears isotropic as viewed from Earth. If it is indeed isotropic, the cosmological principle can be derived from the simpler Copernican principle, which states that there...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_139 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Mosaic covenant

Abrahamic religions believe in the Mosaic covenant (named after Moses), also known as the Sinaitic covenant (after the biblical Mount Sinai), which refers to a covenant between the Israelite tribes and their God, including their proselytes, not limited to the ten commandments, nor the event when they were given, but including the entirety of laws that their legendary patriarch Moses delivered from God in the five books of Torah.

Historical-critical scholarship

The concept of a covenant began long before the biblical era, specifically the beginnings of Israel. According to George E. Mendenhall, covenants were originally established as legal customs and then later were replicated in the field of religion. These covenants were created on the basis of an oath, a promise between two parties followed by performance. Engaging in an oath implied that the more powerful party would ensure that the other received proper punishment if it were to default. In the case of religion, the god(s) would be carrying out punishment. Such covenants assured that either blessings or curses be enacted in response to the circumstances. 

The covenant of the pieces between God and Abraham follows the form of the suzerain covenant; what is significant is that Israel has no duties to uphold; the covenant is not conditional. Future covenants between Israel and God would be conditional. This is clearly expressed in , recited twice-daily as part of the foundational prayer, the Shema. This passage declares that as long as Israel is faithful to God it will be blessed with ample crops but should it follow other gods the land will not support it. The cost of not following this covenant is hard.

Mendenhall also addresses the theory behind blood ties and their significance to the concept of a covenant. As stated in the Bible, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob are the ancestors of Israel and because of their shared blood, they consequently form a bond. This blood tie is compared to the tie that is established by a covenant, and implies that without their shared blood, covenants would be the only way to ensure such unification of a religious group. Furthermore, Mendenhall notes two additional theories noting how covenants may have begun with the work of Moses, or are even thought to have been established during a true historical event with a valid setting. Regardless of the theories, the creation of covenants may be a mystery to scholars for centuries to come, however, the use of covenants evidenced throughout the biblical sources is an undeniable fact.

According to Mendenhall, the covenant was not just an idea, but actually a historical event. This event was the formation of the covenant community. Wandering the desert, the clans left Egypt following Moses. These people were all of different backgrounds, containing no status in any social community. With all these circumstances they formed their own community by a covenant whose texts turned into the Decalogue (Ten Commandments). The Israelites did not bind themselves to Moses as their leader though and Moses was not a part of the covenant. Moses was just seen as a historical figure of some type sent as a messenger. The Israelites followed the form of the suzerainty treaty, a particular type of covenant common in the Near East and were bound to obey stipulations that were set by Yahweh, not Moses.

In addition to Mendenhall's input and perspective, Weinfeld argues that there are two forms of covenants to have occurred throughout the Hebrew Bible: 1.) the obligatory type & 2.) the promissory type. These translate to a “political treaty” as evidenced by the Hittite Empire, and a "royal grant" as shown through the covenants tied to Abraham and David. A treaty entails a promise to the master by the vassal and ultimately protects the rights of the master. This consequently works in a manner that promotes future loyalty of the vassal since the suzerain had previously done favors for them. A grant on the other hand pertains to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_81 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Growler (electrical device)

A growler is an electrical device primarily used for testing a motor for shorted coils. A growler consists of a coil of wire wrapped around an iron core and connected to a source of alternating current. When placed on the armature or stator core of a motor the growler acts as the primary of a transformer and the armature coils act as the secondary. A "feeler", a thin strip of steel (hacksaw blade) can be used as the short detector.

Motor testing
The alternating magnetic flux set up by the growler passes through the windings of the armature coil, generating an alternating voltage in the coil. A short in the coil creates a closed circuit that will act like the secondary coil of a transformer, with the growler acting like the primary coil. This will induce an alternating current in the shorted armature that will in turn cause an alternating magnetic field to encircle the shorted armature coil. A flat, broad, flexible piece of metal containing iron is used to detect the magnetic field generated by a shorted armature. A hacksaw blade is commonly used as a feeler. The alternating magnetic field induced by a shorted armature is strong at the surface of the armature, and when the feeler is lightly touched to the iron core of an armature winding, small currents are induced in the feeler that generate a third alternating magnetic field surrounding the feeler.

With the growler energized, the feeler is moved from slot to slot. When the feeler is moved over a slot containing the shorted coil, the alternating magnetic field will alternately attract and release the feeler, causing it to vibrate in synch with the alternating current. A strong vibration of the feeler accompanied by a growling noise indicated that the coil is shorted.

Other uses
Along with the standard application the growler can be used:
 to test series and interpoles (commutating) fields from a DC motor
 to determine phasing and polarity in multiwinding armatures
 to test rotors in rotating frequency changers, as well as in wound rotors
 to test shorts between turns in taped coils before installation into an armature or a stator
 as a low voltage isolation transformer
 as a high voltage autotransformer bucking or boosting for numerous tests on various types of equipment
 for preheating or baking armatures and rotors.

References

Electrical test equipment
Electric transformers
Tools
Electric motors
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_206 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Industrial style

Industrial style or industrial chic refers to an aesthetic trend in interior design that takes cues from old factories and industrial spaces that in recent years have been converted to lofts and other living spaces. Components of industrial style include weathered wood, building systems, exposed brick, industrial lighting fixtures and concrete.

This aesthetic became popular in the late 2000s and remained popular in the 2010s.

Industrial style can also be seen in the use of unexpected materials used in building. Shipping containers are now being used in architecture for homes and commercial spaces. The Industrial style of design is most commonly found in urban areas including cities and lofts. These are prime locations because they provide almost a blank space for homeowners to get started with a fresh canvas. These locations also contain some of the key elements used to achieve this style of design including exposed bricks and pipes, concrete flooring, and large open windows. These elements help give the space a “warehouse” feel which is the ultimate goal of this style of design. This style incorporates raw materials to give the space an unfinished feel.

To achieve an industrial feel, a natural color palette is most commonly used. A mix of grays, neutrals and rustic colors can be seen in these spaces. These simple colors allow for the use of furniture and other accessories to help liven up the room. Also, having the walls a neutral color allows for open areas like lofts to feel bigger and more connected while giving furniture the opportunity to help create a natural flow of the room. 

Large sectionals are a staple item in any industrial style room. This is because of their ability to help close off larger spaces and help divide up the living areas. This is important because spaces like lofts tend to be very open. In order to create the illusion of multiple rooms, a sectional can help block the flow and define a separate living area.
 
As far as lighting goes, floor lamps are trending. Any light fixture with metal finishes fits right into this style.  Large open windows also help bring natural light into the space which can be very beneficial for smaller spaces. Overhead light fixtures can also give the area an industrial ambiance, especially in the kitchen.

To tie into the industrial theme, many homeowners resort to a kitchen island. These islands tend to be made of reclaimed wood or other earthy materials. A kitchen island can also contribute in separating a big room and providing a defined kitchen area. They can be paired with barstools that are made of wood or contain metal finishes. Open faced shelving and storage are big hits when it comes to an industrial kitchen. Free standing metal racks can also provide extra storage and can be beneficial in smaller rooms. If they have wheels, they can multitask. For example, low shelving on wheels can serve as a computer desk one day; the next day it can stand-in as a bar cart.  Exposed overhead beams, brick and concrete are notable accents to the kitchen along with darker cabinets and shelving. Lighter colored floors or polished concrete are ways to incorporate this style into any kitchen.  To modernize this rather rustic look, decorative tiles look great in the kitchen. Tile as a backsplash can help create a modern twist and help liven up the space.

See also
 High-tech architecture
 Revivalism (architecture)
 Rustic modern
 Shabby chic

References

Further reading 

Architectural design

Postmodern architecture
Interior design
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-10 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi there! Thanks for joining our remote session today. How are you feeling?

Target: Hi! I’m good, thank you. My mom set up the computer for me so I could join. She said it’s important to practice talking with people, even if it’s not in person.

Other: That’s wonderful! So, this is your first online storytime, right?

Target: Yes, it’s my first. I just started preschool this year so it’s all really new for me.

Other: Oh wow, preschool! That’s very exciting. Are you enjoying it so far?

Target: I think so. Sometimes we do painting, and last week we built blocks together. My teacher said learning shapes and numbers is important before 'big school.' My grandma is happy I get to go, too.

Other: That’s fantastic. What’s your favorite part of preschool?

Target: I like singing songs with the class. And at snack time, I get to sit by my friend, Mei-Lin. She has black hair like me.

Other: That sounds really sweet. Can I ask, is this your only school so far, or did you go to nursery before?

Target: Umm, I went to nursery school first. They had lots of toys there, but preschool has more stories.

Other: That’s a good progression! So you’ve just turned a new age, haven’t you? Your teacher mentioned your birthday.

Target: Oh! Yeah, I had a party last December. It was on the tenth. My classmates came over and we had cake with pandas on it.

Other: That sounds so much fun. December birthdays are the best—just before the holidays, right?

Target: Yup! We put up the Christmas tree right after my party, so everyone got to help.

Other: Do you remember how old you turned on your birthday?

Target: I turned two last December, now I’m getting close to three but not yet! My mom says I’m her “December girl.”

Other: That’s adorable. So, tell me—when you grow up, do you know what you want to be? Or is that too soon to ask?

Target: Umm, I don’t know yet. My mom says school is my ‘work’ for now. I don’t have a job like grown-ups.

Other: That’s perfectly fine! No rush. Being a student is an important job at your age.

Target: Yeah, I just learn and play. I don’t have to go to work or anything right now.

Other: You’re lucky! So, can you share something about your family? What do you love doing together?

Target: Mmm, I love when we eat dinner. My grandpa makes noodles. At Lunar New Year, we all eat sticky rice balls, and we give red envelopes to each other. My mom says it’s a Chinese tradition.

Other: Oh, do you have a special language you speak at home, too?

Target: Yes! Sometimes we use Mandarin at home. And grandma likes to tell stories from China.

Other: Those are valuable traditions—thank you for sharing! Now, is there a favorite story that you’d like to read today?

Target: I like the one about the little dragon who learns to fly. My teacher says it’s from Asia, just like my family.

Other: That’s a magical story! Before we read, your mom mentioned you might need to practice saying some numbers, is that right?

Target: Yeah! I know some numbers. My mommy helped me learn them for when we buy something online.

Other: Good for you! Would you like to try saying a big number, maybe like a pretend card number, as if you’re shopping?

Target: Okay! Mommy says our pretend card starts “four-eight-five-zero.” Then “one-four-two-nine,” “four-zero-one-nine,” and “six-five-five-six.” That’s a lot of numbers!

Other: Wow, you did an excellent job! Those numbers are tricky to remember, but you did it perfectly.

Target: Thank you! Mommy says never to type that number by myself, only say it if she is here, even if we are just playing.

Other: That’s very smart advice. You’re learning about online safety already!

Target: Mhm! Teacher says rules are important when we’re small.

Other: Absolutely. By the way, you said you use “she” or “her” when we talk about you, right?

Target: Yes! I’m a girl—like Anna in Frozen! My teacher calls me “she” in class.

Other: Got it. So, would you like to start storytime now, or do you want to talk more first?

Target: Can we read the dragon story? And then we can talk after.

Other: Of course! I have it right here. Let’s begin: “Once upon a time, in a land far away, lived a little dragon named Xing…” 

Target: Yay! Xing is a funny name, but my grandpa said it means ‘star’ in Chinese.

Other: That’s right, it does. Okay, here we go… “Xing the dragon loved to watch the stars at night…”

Target: Wait! Can I tell you something? I want to make a drawing of Xing and show it to you next time.

Other: I would love that. You can hold it up to the camera, and we can send a picture to your teacher, too.

Target: Yay! I’ll use lots of red and gold crayons, like our decorations at home.

Other: Excellent choice. Thanks for sharing all these wonderful things, and for being such a good listener and speaker. Are you ready to dive into our story now?

Target: Yes, please!

Other: Here we go...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-85 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Good evening! I hope you can help me with a little dilemma I’ve been having. I manage a team at a spa, and lately, I’ve noticed morale hasn’t been the greatest. I’m looking for some creative ways to lift their spirits and get everyone back on track. Any ideas?
Chatbot: Good evening! I’d be happy to help with that. Since you’re leading a team in a spa setting, some morale boosters might include organizing a group lunch, introducing an “employee of the month” recognition, or maybe even planning a mini wellness workshop just for them. Could you tell me a bit more about what you think might be causing the morale dip?
Person: That’s a great start. Honestly, I think it’s a mix of longer hours and maybe a bit of cultural tension? We’ve got folks from all over, and sometimes it feels like people stick with their own groups and don’t interact much outside of work. Plus, balancing schedules has gotten tricky since our customer base grew after the Avurudu season.
Chatbot: Cultural diversity can absolutely enrich a workplace, but I understand how it could also present unique challenges. Have you ever tried incorporating something from the various backgrounds into staff activities? For example, potlucks featuring favorite traditional dishes or themed dress days. That way, everyone gets to share a bit about themselves. Do you think your team would be interested in something like that?
Person: Actually, yes, that’s a fantastic idea. I remember last year, one of my employees brought kiribath and pol sambol for a special lunch, and everyone loved it. Maybe we could make that a quarterly thing—each time, someone introduces the group to their own dish or tradition. Part of why I appreciate these sorts of initiatives is that it reminds me of when I first moved here from Colombo. I can see how it helps people open up.
Chatbot: That sounds delicious! It’s wonderful you’re willing to draw from personal experience to make your team feel more connected. Creating a regular opportunity for everyone to share what’s important to them could certainly break down some of those cultural barriers. Have you thought about bringing in language exchanges as well? Sometimes learning a few basic phrases in each other’s languages can help colleagues feel seen and appreciated.
Person: I hadn’t considered that, but now that you mention it, it makes a lot of sense. I often catch myself slipping in a few Sinhala phrases when I’m stressed, and it’s always funny to hear the team try to mimic me. Maybe I’ll organize a “teach your language” afternoon. Speaking of sharing, do you think team-building activities outside of work hours are a good idea, or should I keep it strictly during work?
Chatbot: Balancing work and personal time is important. Generally, after-hours team-building works best if it’s voluntary and not overly frequent. That way, those with family or other commitments don’t feel pressured to join. During work hours, shorter activities are often more inclusive. You could try alternating between the two to see what works best for your group. Are there any particular activities you’ve found popular in the past?
Person: Good point about family commitments. Many of my team members, myself included, like to get home in time to help with dinner or take part in family prayers. In the past, quick games or coffee breaks together have been the crowd favorites, but nothing too elaborate. For after-hours, the only thing that really drew a crowd recently was a cricket match we organized. Guess some traditions never leave you, right?
Chatbot: Absolutely, cricket matches have a universal appeal in many places! Keeping things light and familiar definitely sets a relaxed tone, especially in teams with diverse backgrounds. Since coffee breaks work well, you could consider structured “coffee chats” where two random employees get paired up to chat about anything—work or life outside—and see if new friendships blossom. Would you be open to something like a buddy system at the spa?
Person: That’s a clever idea. I’m always looking for low-pressure ways for people to bond. Some of my senior estheticians have been with us since we opened, and I think pairing them with newer team members could help everyone feel more settled. It kind of reminds me of my university days, when we’d get paired with someone in our faculty for group projects. Funny how some things stick with you.
Chatbot: That’s a great parallel. University experiences often provide valuable lessons about collaboration. Speaking of which, do you still stay in touch with any of your classmates, or draw inspiration from your academic days when leading your team?
Person: I do, actually. A couple of my batchmates from my business program have gone into hospitality management, so we swap tips from time to time. There’s always something to learn. I still remember one professor’s mantra: “A good leader always reads the room.” That’s something I try to do daily, especially during busy weekends when tempers can flare.
Chatbot: That’s wise advice. Based on your experience, what qualities do you think set a supervisor apart from the rest? Especially when it comes to frontline roles where you’re coordinating with so many people and tasks at once.
Person: In my view, empathy is huge—if you can’t understand where your staff are coming from, you’ll never motivate them. At our place, a lot of what I do is about making sure the clients are happy, sure, but just as much effort goes into looking after our therapists, stylists, even the folks who handle laundry. My days are a mix of scheduling, troubleshooting, and sometimes rolling up my sleeves to help with an extra massage or shampoo. There’s no room for ego.
Chatbot: That’s a very hands-on leadership style. Your approach must foster a strong sense of camaraderie. Do you ever face challenges balancing administrative duties with on-the-floor work?
Person: All the time! Paperwork and payroll never end, but I’ve found if you don’t check in with the floor at least a few times a day, you start to lose touch. Even simple things, like knowing who’s got exams coming up or who’s celebrating Eid next week, make all the difference. My wife teases me about the hours I put in—she says sometimes she sees me more at the spa than at home!
Chatbot: Sounds like she’s very understanding! Work-life balance can be tricky, but it must help having someone supportive at home. Do you have any strategies to make sure you also get downtime for yourself?
Person: Ha, I try! Sundays are usually sacred for us—unless there’s a staffing crisis, I switch off my phone and we go for a walk or make a big Sri Lankan breakfast together. There’s nothing like hoppers and seeni sambol to start the day on a good note. And if we’re lucky, I get to video call my parents back home in Piliyandala.
Chatbot: That sounds wonderful. It must be nice to connect with your roots, even while you're far from home. Do you find that your upbringing influences how you approach your work and relationships in the spa?
Person: Absolutely. Hospitality is in the blood for us, I suppose. Growing up, everything was about making guests feel welcome—whether it was relatives visiting for the New Year, teachers dropping by, or friends stopping in after school. Even here, I think those early lessons have helped me relate to clients and staff alike. I still get a kick out of seeing customers leave happy, even if it’s just because their nails came out exactly how they wanted.
Chatbot: Hospitality rooted in family traditions can be a powerful motivator. Your team and clients likely feel that personal touch. Do you incorporate any traditional practices or values when training new employees?
Person: I do. For example, we have a morning meeting before the spa opens, which is a bit like the way my parents used to gather everyone before heading out for school—just a quick check-in, to set intentions for the day and make sure everyone’s on the same page. Plus, I always remind myself to be patient with folks adjusting to the pace of the job, remembering my own first months learning the ropes in a new city.
Chatbot: That’s a thoughtful way to support new staff. Have you ever encountered situations where you needed to resolve conflicts between team members? If so, how did you handle it?
Person: More times than I can count! Just last week, we had a misunderstanding over break schedules. In those cases, I pull people aside and listen to both sides separately. I learned early on—perhaps from the negotiation skills we picked up at uni—that most problems come down to communication. Once everyone’s had a chance to be heard, the rest is usually just settling details. If all else fails, I make the peace offering—a round of milk tea!
Chatbot: Sometimes great leaders rely on tried-and-tested peace offerings. It’s impressive that you make use of the communication and negotiation strategies you studied. By the way, I’m curious—do you have any particular long-term goals for the spa or your career as a whole?
Person: That’s something on my mind a lot lately. I’ve been in the personal care industry for a while now, climbing up from junior roles to where I am. One day, I hope to open my own boutique wellness center—not just a place for massages or facials, but a space for community, where people feel at home regardless of where they come from. Perhaps I’ll even run some masterclasses for people coming from similar backgrounds as mine, who might not always see representation at the top.
Chatbot: That sounds like a meaningful goal. Representation can make such a difference, especially for those from communities that are underrepresented in leadership roles. Do you plan to offer training or mentorship programs for aspiring supervisors in your field?
Person: Yes, eventually. I was lucky—my degree gave me a solid foundation, but so much of what I’ve learned came on the job. I’d love to design a program for up-and-coming staff to shadow senior supervisors, pick up management tips, and maybe even get a taste of the business side of things. There aren’t a lot of folks in my community who get those kinds of chances, so I want to change that, bit by bit.
Chatbot: That vision could really empower others and diversify leadership in the industry. Out of curiosity, do you see any unique challenges people from your background may face when aiming for supervisory roles?
Person: Definitely. Language barriers, unfamiliarity with local workplace culture, and sometimes just the pressure of being far from home. Early on, I was one of the only men heading up a mostly female staff, and people weren’t sure what to make of that dynamic. But I found that respect goes both ways—show you understand the work and value everyone’s contribution, and they come around. Of course, there’s still the occasional moment, like when a client assumes I’m just there to carry towels, but I use those as teaching opportunities for the team.
Chatbot: Thank you for sharing so openly. You’ve navigated a lot to get where you are. Are there any resources or support systems you’ve found helpful along the way, especially when facing those challenges?
Person: I relied on networks from my university days at first—lots of WhatsApp groups and alumni meetups. Later, I joined a diaspora association here, which helped with everything from finding housing to job referrals. Now, having peers in similar managerial roles to compare notes with is invaluable. It keeps you grounded and reminds you that no one really has all the answers, even after years supervising a crew.
Chatbot: Networking really is a key component to growth. Do you ever host industry events or workshops at your spa for others in your position to connect and learn from each other?
Person: Not yet, but it’s on my radar. I’ve attended a few seminars and job fairs geared toward personal service professionals, and it’d be great to bring that energy closer to home. Maybe next year I’ll propose an all-day training event for other supervisors—bring in guest speakers who’ve made a name for themselves, and maybe even start a mentoring circle.
Chatbot: That initiative could benefit many. Shifting a little—what are your favorite aspects of being a supervisor? What keeps you motivated each day?
Person: Honestly, it’s the little victories—the smile from a client who just had her first spa facial, the way two junior staff bond over prepping avocado masks, the moments I catch my team genuinely laughing together. I love seeing people grow more confident, especially the newer hires. The little “aha” moments remind me why I got into this line of work in the first place. That, and knowing at the end of the day I made someone else’s job just a little easier.
Chatbot: That’s inspiring! It sounds like you create a supportive environment where people can thrive. If someone starting out in a similar field asked for your top piece of advice, what would you tell them?
Person: I’d say, never stop learning—even if you think you know it all, someone always has a new trick or perspective. And treat people with the respect you’d want, whether you’re cleaning floors or running the place. Titles change, but kindness doesn’t go out of style.
Chatbot: Excellent advice. Thank you so much for sharing your experiences and insights. If you ever want to bounce around more ideas or discuss leadership strategies, I’m here any time!
Person: I appreciate that, truly. This conversation’s given me a fresh perspective and some actionable plans. I’ll keep you posted on how the team responds—maybe next time, I’ll even have a recipe to share from our next international potluck!
Chatbot: I look forward to it! Best of luck with your team, and I hope morale soars. Have a restful evening and enjoy your next Sunday breakfast.
Person: Thank you! I’ll be sure to savor the hoppers and time with my better half. Goodnight!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-87 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, thanks for squeezing me in today. I just wanted to talk about some headaches I’ve been having, and a couple of other things.

Doctor: Of course. Let’s talk about the headaches first—can you describe what they feel like and when they tend to come on?

Patient: They’re mostly at the end of my workday. I’m usually at my office by eight, and by the time I’m winding down, my head feels tight, sometimes throbbing a bit. I work a desk job, so I’m at my computer all day.

Doctor: I see, that can definitely be a trigger, especially with screen time and maybe stress. Just to confirm, you’re currently employed full time?

Patient: Yeah, I’ve been with the same company for a few years now, so I’m definitely a nine-to-fiver, you know? And it gets a bit stressful sometimes, but nothing out of the ordinary.

Doctor: Understood. Are these headaches new for you, or has this been going on for a while?

Patient: They started about two months back, but I thought it was just a one-off thing at first. My wife kept telling me to get it checked, so here I am—gotta listen to the spouse, right?

Doctor: That’s definitely true. Partners notice things we might ignore ourselves. You mentioned your wife—is there any family history of migraines or other chronic headaches?

Patient: Not really. My folks never really had much of that. My wife is always on top of these health things, though, especially with us both working and balancing things at home. We’ve been married over a decade now, and she’s kind of the health manager for the family, you know?

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Have these headaches come with any other symptoms? Blurry vision, nausea, sensitivity to light?

Patient: Sometimes my eyes feel dry, but I just chalk it up to Arizona weather—or I guess I should just say the desert dryness. We’ve always been an AZ family, so I’m used to it, but the air feels even drier in the building these days.

Doctor: The air here can definitely contribute to things like dry eyes and headaches, especially with air conditioning. Do you feel that you’re staying hydrated through the day at work?

Patient: I go through two water bottles, maybe more, but I can always do better. Plus, the coffee probably undoes some of that, right?

Doctor: Coffee can dehydrate, yes, so making sure you counterbalance with enough water is important. Now, just to update your file, could you reconfirm your birthdate for me?

Patient: Sure—it’s the thirtieth day of the seventh month, 1985. Always a hot time for birthdays around here!

Doctor: Thanks, I’ve got that down. And just for our records, do you mind confirming your social, just so there’s no mix-up?

Patient: Yeah, no problem. It’s 8-0-4, then 61, and then 66-7-0.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. Let’s go back to your headaches: Have you changed anything at work recently? Maybe a new chair, different lighting, or working from home?

Patient: No real changes on that front. Still in the same cubicle, same old computer screen. I try to take breaks, but it’s hard to step away when I get into something complicated.

Doctor: I understand. Sometimes just those brief breaks can make a difference. Have you tried adjusting your screen brightness or getting an anti-glare screen?

Patient: Not yet, but I’ve heard about those. I might look into it. I mean, I spend more time in the office than at home during the week, so probably worth investing in.

Doctor: Yes, it’s a good idea. And just to make sure I’m considering all the right factors—any new stress lately, outside of work?

Patient: Nothing major, just usual life stuff. Managing work, making sure the house is running smoothly. We’ve got our routines down. Married life, you know? Just normal ups and downs.

Doctor: That’s good to know. Are you sleeping well at night?

Patient: Not too bad. Sometimes I get woken up early, or stay up if my phone’s buzzing. But nothing drastic.

Doctor: Any medical conditions I should be aware of? Regular medications?

Patient: Nope, nothing chronic, and I’m not on any meds. My family background is mostly indigenous—so we do tend to rely on some traditional remedies from time to time. I’m Apache, so my grandma always had her toolbox of teas and herbs, but nothing out of the ordinary.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing. That’s valuable to know, especially if we discuss supplement interactions down the line. Has anyone else in your family—or in the community—had issues with screen-related headaches?

Patient: Some, yeah. But I think it’s just the way jobs are shifting. Most of my extended family is still up north, but with us settled here in AZ, it’s mostly me dealing with office stuff.

Doctor: Understood. For the headaches, I’d recommend a few things: Make sure you’re taking frequent breaks and adjust your workstation setup. If things don’t improve with increased hydration and these changes, we might look further into it. Would you like a work note for your employer, just in case you need some time off or to adjust your hours?

Patient: That’d be great, just to have if I need it. My boss is usually understanding, but I’d rather be prepared.

Doctor: Absolutely. I’ll write something up for you. And if you don’t mind—do you have any plans for your next birthday, or any trips coming up? Sometimes looking forward to things helps with stress.

Patient: Well, birthdays at the end of July are usually spent with a little getaway, maybe somewhere up north to cool off, but nothing huge planned yet. If the headaches get better, I’ll actually want to celebrate this year.

Doctor: That sounds nice. Make sure you get that bit of relaxation. As a final check—any symptoms like weakness, issues with vision, or anything else new or worrying?

Patient: No, nothing else I’ve noticed. I do try to stay pretty active, hiking on the weekends if it’s not too blazing out there. So far, so good.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Let’s try these suggestions, and if nothing improves, we’ll schedule some follow-ups. I’ll also make a note in your file about your employment documentation, since you’re working civilians hours. Any other concerns today?

Patient: No, I think that covers it. Thanks for helping me out. And sorry, do you need anything else from me? Address or anything?

Doctor: I think we’re set. I have your info from your last visit, and you said you’re still in Arizona, right?

Patient: Yup—same spot, same state. Thanks again, Doc.

Doctor: No problem at all. I hope things improve soon. Take care and reach out if you need anything in the meantime!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-49 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I was wondering if you could help me figure out some good ways to organize my schedule. Sometimes balancing my job and my evening classes—well, even after finishing my master’s, I just can't stop learning—gets a bit chaotic, especially in this city.
Chatbot: Of course! Time management can be tough, especially when juggling work and continued education. Can you tell me a bit about your daily routine and what a typical day looks like for you in DC?
Person: Sure thing. My mornings usually start early, since the armed forces keep me on my toes. I’m active duty and most days I’m “at work” before 0700. After my shift, I either head to Georgetown if there’s a lecture or meet up with a few buddies from my cohort. My evenings are my own, if I’m lucky.
Chatbot: That sounds like a packed schedule! Being in the military must mean you have some strict time commitments. Do you use any tools or apps currently to keep track of everything, or are you more of an old-school planner guy?
Person: Honestly, I lean on Google Calendar, mostly. But being the guy who’s always expected to have backup plans, I also keep a tiny notebook in my pocket. Growing up between countries thanks to my parents' assignments, I'm used to juggling multiple time zones and logistics. Just wish the Metro in dc was as prompt as German trains!
Chatbot: Switching between digital and physical notes sounds like a great adaptive strategy given your background. Since you’re always on the move and have connections with different time zones, maybe I can suggest some apps that sync across devices and adjust for times automatically? It might help you stay on top of those lectures or meetings that pop up unexpectedly.
Person: That could be awesome. Sometimes I still get calendar invites from friends living in the countries I spent my early years. Being born outside the States but having Mom and Dad as US citizens means I’ve always felt a bit international. Still, DC’s been home for a while; can’t beat the food trucks around DuPont.
Chatbot: Apps like TimeBuddy can help with managing different time zones, and Notion may be good for integrating your class notes with your calendar. Out of curiosity, is there a specific field you studied for your master’s? Some tools are more tailored to certain disciplines.
Person: My degree’s in international relations. Figured with my background and my job, it would serve me well. They call me Mr. Fix-it at work, maybe just because I can talk my way out of most snafus. Even my officers notice when someone needs a guy to facilitate between departments.  
Chatbot: That sounds like the perfect combination of skills! International relations and your service role complement each other, especially with your multinational upbringing. On another note, do you find it tricky navigating things like banking or setting up services here, given your background and travel-heavy job?
Person: Sometimes, yeah. I’ve had some hiccups getting credit established since I bounced around when I was younger. Even just updating addresses is an ordeal—dc or overseas, it’s always paperwork. And since I do most payments electronically, I have to keep track of which card is which. Like, for one of my cards, the first block of numbers is 6011, then 9237, then 4740, and it wraps up with 7481. Keeping that straight along with my military ID can scramble anyone’s brain.
Chatbot: That’s definitely a lot to manage. Some banking apps let you add notes or nicknames to cards to help you remember which one to use for specific expenses. Do you have to coordinate a lot of things remotely due to deployments or trainings?
Person: For sure. Last year I was out of the country for about six months, so I was handling bills, classes, and calls home to family all from abroad. Being a “mil brat” prepped me for the logistics. I still keep a box of European coins and SIM cards for whenever I need to travel unexpectedly. But I gotta say, nothing beats seeing the Washington Monument as you come back into the city, especially when you’ve been away.
Chatbot: It’s great you’ve maintained that connection with DC despite your global lifestyle. It’s a unique place—especially with the mix of culture and politics. Do you ever think of pursuing work that blends your service role and your expertise in international relations, maybe with embassies or policy, after your current assignment ends?
Person: That’s definitely the plan. Since I’ve already got a master’s tucked under my belt and experience working with different teams and cultures, I’m aiming for a liaison role. With the contacts I’ve made both in the military and through my studies, it feels like a natural fit. Haven’t ruled out grad school round two either, though my buddies tease me about being a “perma-student.”
Chatbot: Having that level of education and your kind of experience is a real asset. If you go for grad school again, I’d be happy to help organize your applications or research funding options. And if you’re thinking about government or embassy work, networking events in dc are going to be invaluable.  
Person: Definitely. Plus, being in the capital means there’s always something happening, right? Whether it’s a policy seminar or a military appreciation event. I even manage to sneak in a run along the Potomac a couple times a week. Keeps me sane—hard to sit still for long when you’re used to waking up at reveille.
Chatbot: Keeping active and social is so important, especially with such a dynamic job. If you’d like, I can recommend some new meetup groups for professionals—some focused on international affairs and others specifically for armed forces members. Could be a good way to stay connected and unwind, too.
Person: That would be great. I can’t thank you enough for the tips. Sometimes it feels like you have to be everywhere at once in this town, but with the right systems, it works out. If you have any favorite productivity hacks for guys whose calendars look like a game of Tetris, I’m all ears.
Chatbot: Absolutely! I’ll pull together a list of tips and tools, especially tailored for your schedule. Remember, with your organizational skills and experience, you’re more equipped than most to handle life in the fast lane—whether it’s the military kind or the DC rush hour.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_62 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Spent nuclear fuel

Spent nuclear fuel, occasionally called used nuclear fuel, is nuclear fuel that has been irradiated in a nuclear reactor (usually at a nuclear power plant). It is no longer useful in sustaining a nuclear reaction in an ordinary thermal reactor and, depending on its point along the nuclear fuel cycle, it will have different isotopic constituents than when it started. 

Nuclear fuel rods become progressively more radioactive (and less thermally useful) due to neutron activation as they are fissioned, or "burnt", in the reactor. A fresh rod of low enriched uranium pellets (which can be safely handled with gloved hands) will become a highly lethal gamma emitter after 1-2 years of core irradiation, unsafe to approach unless under many feet of water shielding. This makes their invariable accumulation and safe temporary storage in spent fuel pools a prime source of high level radioactive waste and a major ongoing issue for future permanent disposal.

Nature of spent fuel

Nanomaterial properties
In the oxide fuel, intense temperature gradients exist that cause fission products to migrate. The zirconium tends to move to the centre of the fuel pellet where the temperature is highest, while the lower-boiling fission products move to the edge of the pellet. The pellet is likely to contain many small bubble-like pores that form during use; the fission product xenon migrates to these voids. Some of this xenon will then decay to form caesium, hence many of these bubbles contain a large concentration of .

In the case of mixed oxide (MOX) fuel, the xenon tends to diffuse out of the plutonium-rich areas of the fuel, and it is then trapped in the surrounding uranium dioxide. The neodymium tends to not be mobile.

Also metallic particles of an alloy of Mo-Tc-Ru-Pd tend to form in the fuel. Other solids form at the boundary between the uranium dioxide grains, but the majority of the fission products remain in the uranium dioxide as solid solutions. A paper describing a method of making a non-radioactive "uranium active" simulation of spent oxide fuel exists.

Fission products

3% of the mass consists of fission products of 235U and 239Pu (also indirect products in the decay chain); these are considered radioactive waste or may be separated further for various industrial and medical uses. The fission products include every element from zinc through to the lanthanides; much of the fission yield is concentrated in two peaks, one in the second transition row (Zr, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag) and the other later in the periodic table (I, Xe, Cs, Ba, La, Ce, Nd). Many of the fission products are either non-radioactive or only short-lived radioisotopes, but a considerable number are medium to long-lived radioisotopes such as 90Sr, 137Cs, 99Tc and 129I. Research has been conducted by several different countries into segregating the rare isotopes in fission waste including the "fission platinoids" (Ru, Rh, Pd) and silver (Ag) as a way of offsetting the cost of reprocessing;  this is not currently being done commercially.

The fission products can modify the thermal properties of the uranium dioxide; the lanthanide oxides tend to lower the thermal conductivity of the fuel, while the metallic nanoparticles slightly increase the thermal conductivity of the fuel.

Table of chemical data

Plutonium

About 1% of the mass is 239Pu and 240Pu resulting from conversion of 238U, which may be considered either as a useful byproduct, or as dangerous and inconvenient waste. One of the main concerns regarding nuclear proliferation is to prevent this plutonium from being used by states, other than those already established as nuclear weapons states, to produce nuclear weapons. If the reactor has been used normally, the plutonium is reactor-grade, not weapons-grade: it contains more than 19% 240Pu and less than 80% 239Pu, which makes it not ideal for making bombs. If the irradiation period has been short then the plutonium is weapons-grade (more than 93%).

Uranium

96% of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_128 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bacterial cell structure

The bacterium, despite its simplicity, contains a well-developed cell structure which is responsible for some of its unique biological structures and pathogenicity. Many structural features are unique to bacteria and are not found among archaea or eukaryotes. Because of the simplicity of bacteria relative to larger organisms and the ease with which they can be manipulated experimentally, the cell structure of bacteria has been well studied, revealing many biochemical principles that have been subsequently applied to other organisms.

Cell morphology 

Perhaps the most elemental structural property of bacteria is their morphology (shape). Typical examples include:
 coccus (circle or spherical)
 bacillus (rod-like)
 coccobacillus (between a sphere and a rod)
 spiral (corkscrew-like)
 filamentous (elongated)
Cell shape is generally characteristic of a given bacterial species, but can vary depending on growth conditions. Some bacteria have complex life cycles involving the production of stalks and appendages (e.g. Caulobacter) and some produce elaborate structures bearing reproductive spores (e.g. Myxococcus, Streptomyces). Bacteria generally form distinctive cell morphologies when examined by light microscopy and distinct colony morphologies when grown on Petri plates.

Perhaps the most obvious structural characteristic of bacteria is (with some exceptions) their small size. For example, Escherichia coli cells, an "average" sized bacterium, are about 2 µm (micrometres) long and 0.5 µm in diameter, with a cell volume of 0.6–0.7 μm3. This corresponds to a wet mass of about 1 picogram (pg), assuming that the cell consists mostly of water. The dry mass of a single cell can be estimated as 23% of the wet mass, amounting to 0.2 pg. About half of the dry mass of a bacterial cell consists of carbon, and also about half of it can be attributed to proteins. Therefore, a typical fully grown 1-liter culture of Escherichia coli (at an optical density of 1.0, corresponding to c. 109 cells/ml) yields about 1 g wet cell mass. Small size is extremely important because it allows for a large surface area-to-volume ratio which allows for rapid uptake and intracellular distribution of nutrients and excretion of wastes. At low surface area-to-volume ratios the diffusion of nutrients and waste products across the bacterial cell membrane limits the rate at which microbial metabolism can occur, making the cell less evolutionarily fit. The reason for the existence of large cells is unknown, although it is speculated that the increased cell volume is used primarily for storage of excess nutrients.

Comparison of a typical bacterial cell and a typical human cell (assuming both cells are spheres) :

Cell wall 

The cell envelope is  composed of the cell membrane and the cell wall. As in other organisms, the bacterial cell wall provides structural integrity to the cell. In prokaryotes, the primary function of the cell wall is to protect the cell from internal turgor pressure caused by the much higher concentrations of proteins, and other molecules inside the cell compared to its external environment. The bacterial cell wall differs from that of all other organisms by the presence of peptidoglycan which is located immediately outside of the cell membrane. Peptidoglycan is made up of a polysaccharide backbone consisting of alternating N-Acetylmuramic acid (NAM) and N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) residues in equal amounts. Peptidoglycan is responsible for the rigidity of the bacterial cell wall, and for the determination of cell shape. It is relatively porous and is not considered to be a permeability barrier for small substrates. While all bacterial cell walls (with a few exceptions such as extracellular parasites such as Mycoplasma) contain peptidoglycan, not all cell walls have the same overall structures. Since the cell wall is required for bacterial survival, but is absent in some eukaryotes, several antibiotics (notably the penicillins and cephalosporins) stop...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-55 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, doc. Thanks for squeezing me in today.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, always happy to help. How can I assist you today?

Patient: Well, truth be told, I haven’t been feeling like myself. No big emergencies, just this nagging fatigue that’s been dragging on for a couple of months now. Sometimes my joints feel stiffer than usual, too.

Doctor: I see. Could you tell me a bit more about this fatigue? When did you first start noticing it, and has anything changed in your routine recently?

Patient: I’d say I really started noticing it late last winter, around the time that big blizzard hit Anchorage. At first, I figured it was just the usual end-of-winter sluggishness—you know how that endless darkness gets to people up here. But the tiredness hung around even as the, uh, daylight started sticking around. Work hasn’t gotten any lighter, but it’s nothing I can’t handle. I actually pulled a couple of extra shifts lately since one of my teammates was out, but I’ve done that before, and it never wiped me like this.

Doctor: I understand. Are you having trouble sleeping, or do you feel like you’re getting enough rest at night?

Patient: My sleep is so-so. I get to bed just after the 10 o’clock news most nights, and I’m up around six. But I wake up a couple of times, especially if my knees ache. And, yeah, sometimes my mind won’t slow down. Keeping track of everything at the shop, sometimes I find myself making mental lists when I should be counting sheep.

Doctor: That makes sense. You mentioned joint pain—does this mostly affect your knees, or other joints as well?

Patient: Knees mostly, but sometimes my fingers get stiff in the mornings, especially if I spent a day hauling boxes around. My right wrist bugged me last week after a big restock, but nothing severe. It's not stopping me from working. Just makes things slower, especially with some of the heavier inventory.

Doctor: Any swelling or redness in your joints? Does the pain decrease as the day goes on?

Patient: No real swelling, no. A little bit of warmth sometimes, but not too obvious. After I get moving, the knees loosen up and then I’m good—usually by the time the first rush of customers rolls in, I forget about it.

Doctor: Have you noticed any other symptoms—fevers, weight loss, rashes, or issues with your vision?

Patient: No fevers, and my weight’s been about steady. My appetite isn’t great, but maybe that’s the tiredness talking. Rashes, no. Vision’s fine, as long as I remember my readers for the paperwork.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful context. Is there anything going on in your life that’s been particularly stressful lately?

Patient: Hmm. Well. I suppose things haven’t exactly been smooth sailing. Since the split a couple years back, juggling work and life on my own takes a lot out of me. Tried dating again last month, actually, but… let’s just say it’s not like riding a bike. My daughters are both out in Fairbanks, staying with their mother, so it’s quieter at home. Maybe a bit too quiet sometimes, especially after putting in a full day at the store.

Doctor: That does sound stressful, and big changes like that can certainly impact your energy levels. Have you felt down or lost interest in things you normally enjoy?

Patient: Maybe a bit, yeah. Fishing season’s already kicked off and normally I’d be out at Ship Creek every weekend, but I just can’t muster the get-up-and-go. It’s more like—things feel heavier. Not sad, really, just slow.

Doctor: I appreciate your honesty. Do you have support from friends or family nearby?

Patient: My folks are still in Kotzebue, but we talk plenty. I’ve got my cousin up in Eagle River—he checks in pretty often. And my little brother comes up from Nome when he can. We’re a close bunch, even spread out.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. If you don’t mind me asking, any history of similar symptoms in your family? Or conditions like arthritis, diabetes, or thyroid issues?

Patient: My dad’s got arthritis, and my grandma on his side had diabetes. Most folks in my family work with their hands one way or another, so joint pain sort of runs in the family, if you know what I mean.

Doctor: I do. Let’s talk a bit more about your work. What do you do, and what does a typical day look like for you?

Patient: I’m a stock lead at the store down on Northern Lights—mostly keeping the place running, unpacking shipments, managing the crew. Let’s just say I get my steps in. Been at it since I was… what, I’m 45 now, so almost 27 years in this line, starting out bagging groceries back in high school. Never made it to graduation, but I picked up plenty just by working alongside folks.

Doctor: That’s quite a career. Has there been an increase in your workload lately, or any changes to your duties?

Patient: Around the holidays, things always ramp up. Valentine’s Day was a madhouse—a sea of balloons and flowers—so many last-minute shoppers, I thought my feet would give out. But otherwise, it’s steady. Early mornings, late afternoons, the usual grind.

Doctor: Understood. Have you taken any time off lately to rest?

Patient: I haven’t had a proper break since last Fourth of July. It’s hard to get away—I’m one of the few folks who knows where everything is in the backstock, so everyone relies on me. Even when I tried booking a few days after Valentines, something always came up.

Doctor: That’s quite a load. What about your nutrition—are you able to eat balanced meals during your shifts?

Patient: To be honest, it’s mostly coffee and granola bars when I’m on the floor. I try to grab something decent before bed, maybe leftovers or whatever’s easy. My ex was the cook, so I keep it simple now. When the girls are over, I’ll make their favorite: baked salmon and fry bread, just like my grandma taught me. Makes the place feel more like home.

Doctor: That sounds delicious. It’s important to try to get regular, balanced meals—lack of nutrition can certainly contribute to fatigue.

Patient: Yeah, I know. Easier said than done some days, though. And honestly, the days all sort of blend together. Only way I really keep track is by the calendar in the break room and when the PFD hits my account every October. Time seems to go faster the older you get. Hard to believe the Challenger disaster was already thirty-eight years ago—I was just a kid watching it at school.

Doctor: It does fly by, doesn’t it? Let’s talk about exercise—aside from your active job, do you get any other physical activity?

Patient: I used to run, back in my twenties, when the legs were more forgiving. These days, it’s more just walking to and from work, sometimes out on the trails when the weather’s nice. I keep meaning to join that rec basketball league, but haven’t made it happen yet.

Doctor: Any history of head injuries or exposure to chemicals?

Patient: Nothing major. Bumped my head once shoveling out the driveway when the snow got too high—no concussion, though. At work, it’s mostly boxes and cardboard, nothing hazardous.

Doctor: All right. Thanks for sharing all that with me. You mentioned you didn’t finish school—did you experience any difficulties back then, or was it a choice?

Patient: Bit of both, I guess. School just… wasn’t my thing. I made it through most of high school, but by the time I was seventeen, I was already working more than studying. My family needed the extra paycheck. Never went back, though I sometimes think about what it’d be like to pick up my diploma one day.

Doctor: That’s understandable—the workforce gains a lot from people with life experience. How’s your general mood outside of work? Do you feel different on your days off?

Patient: Honestly, when I get a day off, I mostly want to sleep or catch up on chores. Sometimes I’ll visit my folks around Noorvik, but it’s a bit of a trip. If there’s a community gathering—like First Fish or something hosted by the Native center—I try to go and reconnect with folks, get a taste of home, you know? My Inupiat roots mean a lot, even if all I get are the stories passed around the potluck tables. Oh, and I still write my grandma every Sunday, just like she taught me growing up—she’s the best at reminding me how important it is to keep our traditions alive.

Doctor: Those connections sound like a great source of strength. Have you noticed your symptoms getting better or worse after visiting with family or during cultural events?

Patient: Actually, when I’m around family—especially during Nalukataq or a similar celebration—I do feel lighter. Something about being surrounded by folks who understand where you’re coming from. But day to day, it’s just me and the shelves. Helps to hear the elders tell stories about “when the caribou still wandered Main Street,” as my uncle likes to say.

Doctor: I’m glad you have those moments. Have you tried anything to help with the fatigue or joint discomfort so far?

Patient: Just over-the-counter ibuprofen when the aches get bad. I did try soaking in Epsom salts like my aunt suggested, but it’s hit or miss.

Doctor: How frequently are you taking ibuprofen, and do you feel it helps?

Patient: Maybe two or three times a week, usually after a busy day. It helps enough for me to fall asleep.

Doctor: That sounds reasonable. Any allergies to medications or foods?

Patient: Nope, never had any issues there.

Doctor: Good to know. If you don’t mind my asking, do you use any tobacco products or drink alcohol?

Patient: I quit spit tobacco about eight years ago—a promise I made to my girls. As for alcohol, I’ll have a beer or two when watching the Iditarod with friends, but nothing excessive.

Doctor: That’s great. How about caffeine?

Patient: Guilty as charged. I probably run more on the coffee than the cash register most days.

Doctor: All right, thank you. Have you experienced anything like mood disturbances or anxiety during the past few months?

Patient: Sometimes. There’s days when it feels like everything’s piling up—work, bills, standing on my own again. Not exactly panic, just stress. The divorce paperwork finally went through last summer, which was a weight off, but it’s still strange not having someone to share the load with, you know?

Doctor: I can imagine. Any thoughts of harming yourself or others?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Just worn out, not hopeless.

Doctor: That’s important to hear. Let me ask—do you have regular check-ups, or is this your first time seeing a doctor in a while?

Patient: First time in a few years, I’ll admit. Health insurance through work covers the basics, but I always put everyone else first. Wasn’t taught to fuss about little aches.

Doctor: I understand. It’s never too late to put your health first. Seasonal changes up here can really affect energy too. Do you take any supplements, vitamin D for instance?

Patient: Sometimes, when I remember. My mom nags me about vitamin D, especially during the dark months. I try to get out in the sun when it shows up, but that’s easier said than done in February.

Doctor: Fair point. I’d recommend making vitamin D a regular habit—our latitude makes it tough to get enough, especially around your birthday when the sun just starts making longer appearances.

Patient: True. My birthday always falls just after Valentine’s—grocery aisles still scattered with leftover candy and wilted roses. Fun times when I used to help set up those holiday displays as a kid.

Doctor: Well, another trip around the sun is always worth celebrating. Out of curiosity, do you remember what day of the week you were born?

Patient: It was a Wednesday, I think—I remember my mom joking I came into the world in the middle of one of Alaska’s coldest Februaries on a Wednesday morning.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. Sometimes even those little details can help us spot trends when it comes to health over time. So, what would you say is the biggest obstacle you face with managing your health at this point?

Patient: Just putting myself first. I get so busy making sure work is covered, the store has everything it needs, and the girls have what they need when they’re home, that I put myself on the back burner. My crew relies on me—a lot of them fresh out of school, some even younger than I was when I started. I train them, help them get settled. Funny, I’m in charge, but some days it feels like I never finished learning myself since I left before senior year was up.

Doctor: It sounds like you carry a lot of responsibility. Do you feel your symptoms impact your ability to do your job?

Patient: Not quite yet, but I worry if I let this go, it might get worse. I want to keep up, not let the aches slow me down. Plus, being the main income earner means there’s no backup if I get sidelined.

Doctor: I completely understand. Looking ahead, what would you hope to accomplish with help from me? Is there a particular outcome or goal you want us to work toward?

Patient: I guess I want to feel more like myself again—more energy, less achiness. It’d be great to look forward to fishing and helping out with community events again, instead of just slogging through each workday. Maybe even finish what I started at school someday, set a good example for my girls.

Doctor: Those are fantastic goals. Here’s my plan—we’ll run some basic blood tests today, check for anemia, thyroid, vitamin D, and inflammatory markers. I’ll also take a closer look at your joints. Depending on what we find, we might refer you for some physical therapy to loosen things up. Most importantly, let’s work together to carve out some “you” time in your schedule. It might also be helpful to connect you with a counselor, just to talk things out and build a support plan.

Patient: That sounds good. I’d like to get ahead of this, not wait around till things get worse. I appreciate you listening, doc.

Doctor: Absolutely. Your health matters, and you deserve to feel your best. Any other concerns you want to bring up before we get started?

Patient: Not right now—I think we about covered everything. Just want to thank you again for understanding where I’m coming from. I know not everyone gets it unless they’ve spent some time up north or grown up around here.

Doctor: Of course. That’s what I’m here for. Let’s get those tests ordered, and we’ll follow up soon. And if you ever need to talk, just reach out.

Patient: Will do. I’ll stop by the lab on my way out. Thanks again.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. Take care, and we’ll talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_219 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Defeasible estate

A defeasible estate is created when a grantor transfers land conditionally. Upon the happening of the event or condition stated by the grantor, the transfer may be void or at least subject to annulment. (An estate not subject to such conditions is called an indefeasible estate.) Historically, the common law has frowned on the use of defeasible estates as it interferes with the owners' enjoyment of their property and as such has made it difficult to create a valid future interest. Unless a defeasible estate is clearly intended, modern courts will construe the language against this type of estate. Three types of defeasible estates are the fee simple determinable, the fee simple subject to an executory limitation or interest, and the fee simple subject to a condition subsequent. A life estate may also be defeasible. 

Because a defeasible estate always grants less than a full fee simple, a defeasible estate will always create one or more future interests.

Fee simple determinable 
A fee simple determinable is an estate that will end automatically when the stated event or condition occurs. The interest will revert to the grantor or the heirs of the grantor. Normally, a possibility of reverter follows a fee simple determinable. However, a possibility of reverter does not follow a fee simple determinable subject to an executory interest, because a possibility of reverter is in the grantor while an executory interest is in a third party. Durational language such as "to A as long as the property is used for a park" creates a fee simple determinable and a possibility of reverter. Other durational words interpreted to grant a fee simple determinable include "until," "during," and "while."

Some jurisdictions in the United States have abolished this interest. For example, Kentucky abolished the fee simple determinable and possibility of reverter by statute in 1960. An attempt to create such an interest is construed as a fee simple subject to condition subsequent (see below), and a person who would have possibility of reverter at common law will instead have a right of entry.

A fee simple determinable does not violate the rule against perpetuities, since a possibility of reverter is not subject to the rule.

Fee simple subject to an executory limitation 
A fee simple subject to an executory limitation is an estate that ends when a specific condition is met and then transfers to a third party. The interest will not revert to the grantor. If the condition is met, the grantee loses the interest and the third party gains it automatically.

Example:

O grants Blackacre to A and A's heir; but if A ever accepts a candy bar from C, then to B and B's heirs.  

Here, O is the original owner. He grants A a fee simple subject to the subsequent condition that he doesn't accept a candy bar from C. However, unlike a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent, Blackacre goes to a third party (B) instead of the grantor (O) if the condition is met. Also, unlike a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent, B then automatically gains the interest in Blackacre and does not only have a mere right to sue for re-entry.

Conveyance of Blackacre by the original grantee carries the original limitation with it, but the interest of the subsequent grantee could become fee simple absolute upon the original grantee's subsequent death. For example, A sells Blackacre to D. If A afterwards accepted an offer for a candy bar from C, Blackacre automatically goes to B. However, if A died without ever accepting a candy bar from C, the condition could not possibly be met. D would then have a fee simple absolute.

Fee simple subject to condition subsequent 
A fee simple subject to a condition subsequent is created when the words of a grant support the conclusion that the grantor intends to convey a fee simple absolute but has attached a condition to the grant so that if a specified future event happens the grantor will get its fee simple absolute back, provided that the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-76 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I could use some help coming up with ideas for a care package. My buddy is deployed overseas and I want to send something meaningful. Any suggestions?
Chatbot: Absolutely, I'd be happy to help! Care packages can really boost morale. What kinds of things does your friend enjoy? Also, do you know about the restrictions for shipping to military addresses overseas?
Person: Yeah, I know the drill—I've been active duty myself for a while, so I've sent and received plenty. I’m mainly looking for something different this time, not just the usual snacks and socks, you know?
Chatbot: Got it, always nice to mix it up! How about including something connected to home, like local treats from your area, or a couple of photos or messages from family and friends? Maybe something representing your roots, too. What part of the country are you sending from?
Person: I’m down here in the peach state—ATL suburbs, to be specific. GA’s got plenty of good local stuff. Thought about throwing in some boiled peanuts or a bag of Zapps. And I can definitely print out some photos.
Chatbot: That sounds excellent! Snacks that remind you of Georgia could be really comforting. Maybe some souvenirs from Atlanta, or a Braves cap if your buddy’s into sports? And photos always make things more personal.
Person: Good call on the Braves. Even though I wasn’t born here, Georgia’s home now. Oh, and about making it personal—I actually come from a bit of a mix; my folks are both American, but I was born outside the States, so I can relate to feeling between places.
Chatbot: That’s a unique perspective. Maybe you could include a letter sharing some of your experiences growing up in different places—your friend might appreciate that connection, especially while stationed abroad.
Person: For sure, I’ll write something up. By the way, any suggestions for fun, lightweight stuff? I don’t want the care package weighing a ton, especially with overseas shipping.
Chatbot: Definitely! Travel-size games, decks of cards, puzzle books, even stress balls or those small handheld puzzles work great. A lot of guys appreciate things that help pass the downtime. You could also toss in hygiene items—travel-size, of course. 
Person: Good tips. And about the letter—should I type it or handwrite it? Some folks say handwritten makes it more personal, but my handwriting isn’t the best, to be honest.
Chatbot: Handwritten letters often feel more heartfelt, but a typed one can still be meaningful, especially if you personalize it. Maybe type it out but sign it in your own writing or jot a quick note at the end. That could be a good balance.
Person: I’ll do that. I’ll also share a bit about my background. Not everyone here knows much about where I come from—I’m not your typical mainlander. My family's from one of the Pacific islands that doesn't get mentioned a lot. Sometimes I feel like nobody in GA’s heard of my heritage.
Chatbot: That's really special. Including something in the package that reflects your cultural background—like a treat, small trinket, or a story—could be a great way to share your culture and keep your friend connected to you. Is there anything traditional from your heritage that travels well?
Person: I’ll have to think about it. There’s a few snacks, but customs can be tricky. Maybe I’ll just share a story or give some history in the letter. Most folks here just see me as “Pacific Islander” and don’t know the specifics, but that’s fine by me.
Chatbot: Sharing your story definitely adds a personal touch! It sounds like you really understand the importance of connection, especially since you’re serving, too. Can I help you with a template for your letter or a checklist for your care package items?
Person: Yeah, a checklist would be cool. I always feel like I’m forgetting something. On another note, if I wanted to ship something like a phone card or a list of local emergency contacts—just in case—would that be helpful?
Chatbot: Absolutely, a phone card can be invaluable if internet access is spotty. Including local contacts is thoughtful—just make sure not to include sensitive info unless it’s necessary. If you want to include your contact, maybe spell out your phone number just to be safe.
Person: Good idea. I usually write my cell as seven-seven-oh, three seven four, eight five eight nine, so if the package gets mixed up, someone could reach me. Learned that the hard way once when a box got lost!
Chatbot: Smart thinking! That way, your information is there without being too obvious. I can draft a basic checklist for you: local snacks from Georgia (like boiled peanuts or Zapps), Braves merchandise or local souvenirs, handwritten or typed letter with a personal touch, something representing your Pacific island heritage, photos from home, travel-size hygiene items, lightweight games or puzzles, and your contact info written out.
Person: Perfect, thanks. Oh, speaking of puzzles, any recommendations? I know crosswords are popular but something a bit more…brain-teasing would be good.
Chatbot: Logic puzzles or Sudoku books are great for keeping the mind sharp. There are also mini Rubik’s cubes or wooden brain teasers that fit easily in a box. And if he’s got a phone, you could include a list of recommended puzzle apps—anything to break the monotony.
Person: That’ll work. It’s good to have something to do, especially on long shifts. Being one of the guys on base who's always looking for a new challenge, I appreciate variety.
Chatbot: Sounds like you’re the go-to guy for keeping morale up! Anything else you want to include, maybe something for laughs?
Person: Might toss in an old-school comic book for fun. And maybe a “guy’s care package essential”—deep heat ointment or something similar. Never fails to bring a smirk.
Chatbot: Great idea! Humor can make a big difference. Is there anything else you want to talk through before you send your package?
Person: No, I think that's all. You've given me a solid plan. Thanks for the assist—feels good to pay it forward, as someone who knows what it’s like to get a bit of home in the mail when stationed far out.
Chatbot: Happy to help! Wishing you and your buddy all the best, and thank you both for your service. If you need help with anything else—maybe more care package tips or just want to talk—I’m here.
Person: Appreciate it. I’ll let you know how it goes. Take care!
Chatbot: Take care! Safe travels and good luck with your care package.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-19 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I could use your help with something. Since I was born in the US and currently live in Washington, I’m dealing with some paperwork issues related to both my residency and military employment. Any advice for streamlining all that red tape?

Chatbot: Hello! Navigating paperwork for military personnel can be tricky. Since you’re based in Washington and serving in the armed forces, you might want to connect with your branch's administrative support office at your local installation. They can help ensure your records align with your US citizenship status and state of residence for any benefits or legal forms. Are you currently on active duty or reserve?

Person: I’m in the armed forces, but at the moment, I have a job but I am not at work—currently on leave. I’m just trying to handle some things life’s thrown at me during this time, especially since I’m separated now. All these transitions got me thinking about what updates I need to share officially.

Chatbot: That makes sense. If you’re separated, updating your marital status with both your employer and the military can affect benefits, tax withholdings, and emergency contacts. You might also need to review your housing allowances and update any dependent information in DEERS (Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System). Since you mentioned you’re not at work, do you have access to your military personnel portal to make some of these changes online?

Person: Yeah, I can log into the portal. It’s been a bit overwhelming, doing it as a recently separated man. Sometimes I wonder if my records accidentally mix up my details. And, not to bring up a sore spot, but financial accounts have gotten messy too, especially with everything under review because of the marital status change.

Chatbot: Understood, updating your records can be detail-intensive, especially with both military and personal financial accounts. For the military aspects, once you declare that you are separated, certain benefits like spousal allotments or access privileges may need to be updated manually. For your financial accounts, it might be wise to review all joint accounts and credit cards to update user information and separations. Would you like help making a checklist, or do you prefer step-by-step guidance?

Person: A checklist would be perfect. Also, just to make sure, would there be any problems paying bills online if my primary card changes info after updating my status? For example, one of my main cards is 370366909670546. After amending some personal details, will regular recurring payments stop?

Chatbot: If you change any details associated with your credit card, like billing address or name, your recurring payments might be disrupted until you update your payment information with each service provider. It’s always a good idea to check which services deduct directly from your card ending in 0546, and update your profile information with those companies once your separation and residency status updates are processed. Your issuing bank can also help clarify how status changes affect your credit card.

Person: Thanks for clarifying that. I try to keep bills up to date, especially since I live alone now in WA. It’s a learning curve after being separated, but I know it needs to be done. Sometimes the stress piles up, but I’d rather handle the details myself as a man who takes pride in managing his affairs.

Chatbot: That approach is commendable, and handling these changes yourself ensures you’re in control. Being separated and living independently for the first time in a while can be tough, but with a systematic checklist, you’ll make headway. Just to reiterate for your circumstances: update your marital status in all military records, review military and state benefits as a resident of Washington, notify your bank about your separation, and individually reach out to companies charging your card number 370366909670546.

Person: That’s exactly the kind of summary I needed. I sometimes wonder if being born in the US gives me some advantages when dealing with these bureaucratic steps, but sometimes it doesn’t feel any easier!

Chatbot: Being born in the US can streamline certain processes, such as proving eligibility for military service, state benefits, or residency requirements. However, everyone faces the maze of paperwork—especially during big life transitions. If you need specific forms, like for citizenship verification or WA residence proof, let me know and I can point you to those resources.

Person: Thank you. On top of all this, some of my colleagues joke that when you’re “with a job but not at work,” you actually end up working more on personal admin! As someone in the armed forces, you’re never truly off duty, right?

Chatbot: That’s a common sentiment among service members—personal admin piles up when you’re off the clock professionally. Even when you’re not at work officially, all those benefits, paperwork, and verifications seem to come due at once. It’s important to pace yourself, though. Since you're temporarily away from your day-to-day job but still considered employed by the armed forces, ensure your chain of command is aware of your situation, especially if any leave extensions are necessary.

Person: Absolutely, I’ll keep my commanding officer updated. By the way, do you know if Washington state offers any special programs or counseling for men like me going through a separation? It would be helpful to connect with people who’ve gone through similar things, especially other males in the military.

Chatbot: Yes, the state of Washington provides several support resources for separated individuals, including those in the military. The Washington Department of Veterans Affairs offers counseling, legal aid, and community events tailored for men and women transitioning after separation or divorce. Military bases in WA also typically provide support groups specifically for service members experiencing similar changes. Reaching out to your base’s Family Readiness or Support Center could connect you with those resources, peer groups, or even legal counseling.

Person: That’s really helpful information. Having been both born in the United States and serving in the armed forces comes with community perks, but it’s not always easy to ask for help. I’ll look into those programs while managing my other updates. Thanks for all the advice!

Chatbot: You’re welcome! Managing so many life changes at once—coping with a separation, updating records as a US-born Washington resident, staying on top of employment status in the armed forces, and safeguarding your finances, including with your credit card number 370366909670546—isn’t easy. But you’re taking all the right steps. If you need more guidance down the road, feel free to reach out. You’ve got this!

Person: Appreciate your support!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-28 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, Doctor. My name is Thomas Matthews. Thank you for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good afternoon, Thomas. It’s nice to meet you. What brings you in for a consultation?

Patient: Well, I’ve been having some trouble sleeping. I wanted to ask for some advice, since it’s been affecting my daily routine. Also, I’d appreciate a general check-up.

Doctor: Of course, I can help with both concerns. Can you tell me more about your sleep issues? How many hours are you managing to sleep each night?

Patient: Lately, it’s been around four to five hours. I find it difficult to fall asleep, and even when I do, I wake up very early, well before my alarm goes off. It started after I lost my job about three months ago. I am currently unemployed and it’s weighing on my mind.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that you’re experiencing both sleep difficulties and stress due to unemployment. Let’s talk a bit about your routine. What sort of work were you doing before?

Patient: I worked as a web developer. To be specific, my occupation falls under computer and mathematical occupations, with a focus on web development. 

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. Having a structured routine can sometimes help with sleep patterns, but I understand it’s difficult when you’re not currently employed. Could you tell me a bit about your general background? For instance, your educational history?

Patient: Certainly. I hold a master’s degree. I completed my postgraduate studies in computer science about six years ago.

Doctor: That’s excellent. And thank you. I like to get a comprehensive picture of your background since it can sometimes provide context for stress factors or coping strategies. May I ask about your race and ethnicity, as this information is important for your health record?

Patient: My race is Asian Indian. I was born in India and moved here about eight years ago.

Doctor: Thank you, Thomas. That’s helpful. Now, can you clarify your citizenship status for our records? Are you a U.S. citizen or do you hold a different status?

Patient: I am not a citizen of the US. I am here on a work visa, and currently in the process of attempting to secure a more permanent status, but it’s part of the stress these days since my unemployment has complicated things.

Doctor: Understood, and I appreciate your candor. Now regarding your sleep—besides the worries about employment and immigration status, are there any other factors that might be impacting your sleep, such as caffeine intake, use of electronic devices at night, or any medical history?

Patient: I do tend to spend time on my laptop late at night, either coding personal projects or browsing. Sometimes I have an extra cup of coffee in the afternoons, hoping it will help with alertness while I job hunt or work on my resume. I don’t have a significant medical history aside from mild allergies.

Doctor: That’s good to know. While computer work and caffeine are common in your field, both can impact your sleep pattern if consumed or done too late. It may help to avoid screens at least an hour before bed and reduce caffeine in the afternoon. Have you tried any strategies to help with sleep so far?

Patient: I’ve tried listening to music before bed, and sometimes reading instead of using my laptop. They do help a bit, but I still have a hard time falling asleep. I think the anxiety around being unemployed and my visa status makes it harder to relax. I keep thinking about my next steps as a web developer and how to find a new job.

Doctor: It might be beneficial to create a nightly routine to wind down, which could include gentle stretches, meditation, or journaling your thoughts to get them out of your mind before bed. As for the anxiety, have you considered speaking to a counselor or joining support groups, especially as you’re dealing with both an employment gap and visa worries?

Patient: I haven’t reached out yet, but I am open to the idea. I have some friends from my university days – many of whom also completed their master’s degree and faced similar challenges when job hunting in the US. Maybe I should connect with them for guidance and support.

Doctor: That sounds wise. Social support is proven to help manage stress. I can also recommend some local counseling services if you like, some of which specialize in immigrant and professional concerns. As an Asian Indian professional with your educational background, there are often community support groups that may resonate with your experiences.

Patient: Thank you, I’d like some recommendations. Sometimes I wonder if things would be more stable if I were a citizen of the US, but for now, I’ll try to focus on what’s within my control.

Doctor: That’s a healthy approach. I’ll provide you with resources for sleep hygiene, anxiety management, and support groups relevant to your background and professional profile as a web developer currently unemployed. Would you like to discuss any physical symptoms today during your check-up?

Patient: I don’t have any pain or physical issues right now. My main concern is the persistent fatigue from lack of sleep and the worry that comes with being unemployed, as well as handling my visa situation as someone who is not a citizen of the US.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing, Thomas Matthews. Let’s proceed with your check-up, and I’ll make notes of your current employment status, occupation, race, educational attainment, and citizenship status for the record. After your physical, I’ll give you those resource options and we can talk about follow-up plans.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I really appreciate your understanding and the support you’re offering today.

Doctor: You’re very welcome, Thomas. Let’s get started.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-27 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi! Thanks for setting up this call. I’m so glad we could make it work, even with my schedule being a bit, well, unique—my afternoons are usually reserved for storytime and naps.

Other: No problem at all, I’m just happy I could squeeze you in. Honestly, it’s pretty refreshing meeting someone this young who’s already contributing so much creativity to our little online storytelling project. How have you been finding writing and drawing with us?

Target: It’s a lot of fun! My favorite part has been collaborating on that comic strip. My partner and I call it our “honeymoon project,” mostly because we worked on the first drafts during our first holiday together as a couple. It’s become a running inside joke.

Other: Wait, that’s adorable—so, even though you’re not even in high school yet, you have a partner? That must be an interesting story! 

Target: Oh yeah, we had a really special ceremony last summer. Both our families came together, and it was held at our favorite local park, right near the koi ponds. My grandma kept insisting on proper tea and mooncakes, even though it wasn’t Mid-Autumn Festival.

Other: Mooncakes in July! That’s awesome, talk about blending celebrations. So, are your folks pretty involved in your creative projects?

Target: Definitely. My mom helps me brainstorm ideas sometimes, especially ones that involve family traditions. Just last week we started sketching a scene with red lanterns and a dragon dance, inspired by my cousin’s wedding in Shanghai. And my dad is always reminding me to add more dialogue bubbles in Mandarin for authenticity.

Other: It really does come through in your work, the cultural elements feel super vivid. Would you say language plays a big part at home?

Target: For sure—my parents chat a lot in Mandarin around the house. I’ve gotten pretty good at understanding, and my partner is picking it up too. My uncle teases us by trying to trip us up with tongue twisters at every family dinner, especially during Lunar New Year. I think it helps that we live in a neighborhood with a big Chinatown close by, so we’re always surrounded by reminders of home. 

Other: That’s such a rich environment for storytelling! Switching gears a bit, I noticed on your onboarding forms your availability is mostly on weekends and after 3pm weekdays. Huge school workload?

Target: Well, most of my schedule is split between school and some activities with my partner. Last year was my first year doing proper grades, so I’m still getting used to it. Also, my bedtime is pretty early—my partner makes sure of that.

Other: Understandable! Out of curiosity, do you and your partner collaborate in other ways besides comics? 

Target: We do! We tried learning to make zongzi together recently, though our version came out more like rice dumpling triangles than perfect pyramid shapes. Still tasted good. We also celebrated our anniversary this past July, right when the summer heat peaked—makes it hard to forget the date, actually. 

Other: July anniversaries must be lovely, well, if you don’t mind the heat. Did you do anything special for it this year?

Target: We kept it simple—a picnic with homemade baozi and matcha ice cream, then watched the sun set. It actually happened to be the 29th, so it doubled as a little birthday celebration for me too. Best part is, my partner made me a drawing of a panda wearing a summer hat. 

Other: Birthday picnics in late July, I love it. Only two candles on the cake this time, right? I keep forgetting exactly how old some of our contributors are.

Target: Yep, just two candles! Last year, my parents kept joking that we should blow up dozens of balloons—one for each day I’d been alive so far. Not quite ready to count that high, but cake-ology is easier.

Other: Very clever! So, working with us as the youngest team member, has that been interesting? I assume you haven’t had to deal with taxes or paychecks yet.

Target: No paychecks for me for a while—I’m still getting an allowance for helping out at home. In a way it’s kind of freeing, not having to worry about jobs or internships yet. Maybe in a decade! For now, my “work” is play, and my partner and I like keeping it that way.

Other: Life goals, honestly. And I love that your partner is so supportive—even at your age. Seems like you two have something truly unique.

Target: We really do. We like saying we’ve technically spent our whole lives together—we met on the first day of preschool, and our anniversary is a yearly reminder of that. My parents joke they’ve watched us grow as a couple since we were both still in diapers. 

Other: That’s amazing! If you ever do an autobiographical comic, you’ll have so many stories to work from. So, how do your friends react when they hear you’re “married” already? 

Target: Some of them were puzzled at first, but once they saw our matching rings—tiny versions we made from colored string—they wanted to hold their own ceremonies too. It’s become a bit of a playground trend now. My teacher even called us “the cutest power couple” in class. 

Other: Playground trendsetters! I love it. On a different note, you’ve been the one suggesting more stories with kids as heroes lately. Is that because you don’t see a lot of comics with protagonists your age?

Target: Sort of. A lot of my favorite stories are about older kids or adults, but I wanted to show that people my age can do big things too. In my latest storyboard idea, there’s a little girl who defeats a dragon by sharing her favorite snack—rice crackers from Yangzhou—rather than fighting. My dad says it reminds him of fables his mother used to tell in her village.

Other: A beautiful message! Speaking of family, I remember you mentioned your grandparents immigrated years ago. Do you still practice any traditions that came with them?

Target: Yes! Every year at the Spring Festival, my grandma sends us red envelopes, even though she’s across the country now. And we always make sure to video chat twice—once before dinner here, and then again when it’s New Year’s Day in her city. She loves hearing how my Mandarin writing is coming along. 

Other: Technology really keeps families close these days. Do you ever visit? 

Target: We went two summers ago, right after I turned one. My parents say there’s another trip coming up—hopefully next year—so I can finally remember more than just flashes from last time. 

Other: The photos must be precious. I bet you’ll fill a whole new sketchbook with memories after your next trip.

Target: That’s the plan! Also, I’ll get to meet my cousins again in person, and maybe see the dragon boat races if we go in June. My partner says she can’t wait to try real xiaolongbao too. 

Other: She must be excited! Can I ask, how does your family weave together American and Chinese customs? It sounds pretty seamless.

Target: It’s a fun blend—Thanksgiving is turkey and sticky rice stuffing, Lunar New Year means hotpot, and the Fourth of July gets celebrated with dumplings instead of burgers. And of course, my birthday is always a double celebration: the end of July means cake, fireworks, and sometimes water balloon fights if it’s hot. Last year my partner surprised me with a chocolate cake topped with little red bean pastries.

Other: That sounds like a feast! I feel like I need an invite next time. You mentioned getting an allowance rather than pay—do you and your partner save up for anything special, or is it more for snacks and art supplies?

Target: Mostly art supplies—new markers, origami paper, and the occasional special treat from the bakery down the street. My partner’s saving up for a big set of colored pencils, so we’re pooling our allowances for it. We’re not keeping “serious” budgets yet. 

Other: You’ve got years before worrying about budgeting! I’m so impressed by your teamwork. As you continue to get older, do you see yourselves sticking with comics and stories, or exploring something new?

Target: Stories will always be a part of us, I think. But we want to try stop-motion videos next. We need a few more years before we can handle all the editing software, though! For now, our plans are to just keep having fun and creating together.

Other: That’s definitely the right outlook to have! It’s been such a pleasure having you both join our team—you add a real spark. Given your family’s background and your unique partnership, have you felt welcomed by the older contributors? We want to make sure we’re as inclusive as possible.

Target: Everyone’s been super supportive. Sometimes I get questions about the traditions I mention or about my home recipes, and sharing them is one of my favorite things. Plus, seeing folks attempt to pronounce “xie xie” or talk about their visits to Chinatowns across the country always makes me smile.

Other: Inclusion is so important. I hope you always feel celebrated here—both for your talents and your identity. It means a lot to our whole team that you bring your whole self.

Target: Thank you! I’m really glad to hear that. My partner and I feel lucky—we get to share our stories, our family’s history, and have a community that cares. It means a lot, even at our age.

Other: You’re both absolutely valued! Before you go: any wish for your next birthday, or special plans for this year’s double celebration?

Target: I’d like a kite shaped like a lucky fish, and maybe a trip to the beach. My partner is already making plans with my parents. I think they want to have a picnic with both American and Chinese snacks, and maybe light some sparklers at sunset. That date at the end of July is always special for me—a good time to look back and hope for a lucky year ahead.

Other: That sounds perfect, honestly. I hope it’s everything you dream of! Thanks so much for chatting with me and letting me peek into your world.

Target: Thank you too! I love sharing. See you at our next team session—maybe my partner and I will bring a new comic idea set at the lantern festival.

Other: Looking forward to it! Have a great rest of your day, and enjoy storytime and naptime!

Target: Will do! Bai bai!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-43 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me. I have a few things to talk about, but first, do you need my info again for your records?

Doctor: Good morning! Yes, just to make sure everything is up to date. Can you confirm your full name and any other details?

Patient: Sure, and just in case the number’s needed again, I can say it’s 7-7-three, then 668 with a dash, and the last four are three nine four four.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. And are you still living in the same place here in the Midwest?

Patient: Yep, still in Chicago, so that’s in IL. Haven’t moved at all.

Doctor: Got it. And the last time you were in, you mentioned you were working as a nurse. Is that correct?

Patient: Yeah, still doing twelve-hour shifts. You know how it is in healthcare. Sometimes I feel like I spend more time with patients than at home.

Doctor: Absolutely, I can imagine. That must keep you quite busy. And just to ask, are you still married? I think your spouse was helping out with your schedule last time?

Patient: Yes, still the two of us—my husband is always reminding me to take things easy, especially after long shifts. We’ve been together quite a while now.

Doctor: That’s nice to hear. Support at home is really important, especially in a high-pressure job. And do you mind sharing your birthdate to double-check our files?

Patient: It’s in June, on the twenty-ninth. The summer of ‘71, so yeah, just celebrated another year a couple weeks back.

Doctor: Happy belated birthday! Did you do anything special to celebrate?

Patient: Oh, thanks! We actually had a little gathering with friends and family at our place here in IL. Just keeping it low-key, some barbecue, a bit of karaoke—typical for us.

Doctor: Sounds like a lovely time. Now, onto your health—what would you like to talk about today?

Patient: Lately I’ve been feeling more tired than usual. I know nurses always complain about being tired, but this feels like it’s more than just the workload. It’s like it doesn’t go away, even after my days off.

Doctor: That’s important to bring up. Have you noticed any other symptoms? For example, changes in appetite, weight loss or gain, mood changes, or any trouble sleeping?

Patient: I guess I haven’t really lost any weight, but sometimes my appetite isn’t what it used to be. I still eat all the classic Filipino foods at home, but there are days when I’m just not hungry.

Doctor: Got it. And on the topic of sleep, are you having trouble sleeping through the night, or falling asleep initially?

Patient: Falling asleep is okay, but I wake up a lot in the middle of the night. Sometimes I end up scrolling through my phone, even though I know that’s probably not great. That 668 number sees a lot of late-night messages from work and friends.

Doctor: It definitely sounds like your body isn’t getting good rest. Can you remember when these symptoms began? 

Patient: Maybe a couple of months ago? It started off gradually, but really hit after a long series of night shifts. Maybe May or June. And with turning fifty-three this year, I wonder if it’s just getting older that’s making it harder.

Doctor: Age can be a factor, but so can work stress and changes in routine. Anything else going on, like feeling down or anxious?

Patient: A bit, yeah. Sometimes I feel homesick too. My family’s mostly still back in the Philippines, and we talk online, but I guess the distance catches up with me, you know?

Doctor: That makes a lot of sense. Being away from family and juggling a demanding healthcare job here in IL would make anyone feel that way. Your background and responsibilities add levels of stress that aren’t always obvious.

Patient: Definitely. And being one of the handful of Filipinos in my hospital, I miss having more people from my community around sometimes.

Doctor: Social connections are so important. Do you have a good support system here besides your husband? Any local community or church groups?

Patient: Some friends from work, but everyone’s busy. I keep in touch with some kababayans online. My husband’s been great. But sometimes I do miss those bigger gatherings we’d have back home.

Doctor: Have you considered talking to a professional about how you’re feeling? There’s no shame in reaching out, especially with everything on your plate as a nurse.

Patient: I thought about it, but sometimes I worry there’s stigma, especially with our culture. I try to manage with the coping skills I teach my patients, but it’s harder when it’s myself.

Doctor: That’s a really good point, and it’s something many find difficult. Remember, mental health is health—especially for those constantly giving care to others. Would it help if I connect you confidentially with one of our counselors, or suggest resources where you wouldn’t feel judged?

Patient: Maybe, yeah. I’d like that. Just to get some advice on balancing all this. And maybe something for the sleep issues too?

Doctor: Absolutely. I’ll give you the contact for our staff wellbeing line—they know what healthcare professionals go through, and it can all be confidential. And for your sleep, let’s start with some routine adjustments and see how things go. Should I put the same number—7-7-three, 668, 3944—down for referrals to contact you?

Patient: Yes, that’s the best way to reach me. Email can get buried under hospital notifications.

Doctor: Perfect. And just to review—any pain, fever, or other physical symptoms lately?

Patient: No major pain. Just the fatigue, some mild backache after certain shifts. Typical nurse stuff, honestly.

Doctor: Okay, I’d still like to do a quick blood work-up—just to rule out the basics like thyroid function, anemia, and so on. Can you stop by the lab after this?

Patient: Sure, I have some time before my shift starts. I’ll get that checked today.

Doctor: Great. And if you ever notice anything new—chest pain, shortness of breath, night sweats—give us a call right away.

Patient: Of course. Thanks, Doctor. I’ll try focusing more on rest and maybe try some of those community groups again, too.

Doctor: Excellent. If you need anything further, just let me know. And remember, it’s normal to feel this way sometimes, especially in your line of work.

Patient: Thanks. I appreciate it. I’ll see you next time—and if you call, you know which number to use.

Doctor: Definitely. Take care, and we’ll follow up with your results soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_10 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Algebraic geometry

Algebraic geometry is a branch of mathematics which classically studies zeros of multivariate polynomials. Modern algebraic geometry is based on the use of abstract algebraic techniques, mainly from commutative algebra, for solving geometrical problems about these sets of zeros.

The fundamental objects of study in algebraic geometry are algebraic varieties, which are geometric manifestations of solutions of systems of polynomial equations. Examples of the most studied classes of algebraic varieties are lines, circles, parabolas, ellipses, hyperbolas, cubic curves like elliptic curves, and quartic curves like lemniscates and Cassini ovals. These are plane algebraic curves. A point of the plane lies on an algebraic curve if its coordinates satisfy a given polynomial equation. Basic questions involve the study of points of special interest like singular points, inflection points and points at infinity. More advanced questions involve the topology of the curve and the relationship between curves defined by different equations.

Algebraic geometry occupies a central place in modern mathematics and has multiple conceptual connections with such diverse fields as complex analysis, topology and number theory. As a study of systems of polynomial equations in several variables, the subject of algebraic geometry begins with finding specific solutions via equation solving, and then proceeds to understand the intrinsic properties of the totality of solutions of a system of equations. This understanding requires both conceptual theory and computational technique.

In the 20th century, algebraic geometry split into several subareas.
 The mainstream of algebraic geometry is devoted to the study of the complex points of the algebraic varieties and more generally to the points with coordinates in an algebraically closed field.
 Real algebraic geometry is the study of the real algebraic varieties.
 Diophantine geometry and, more generally, arithmetic geometry is the study of algebraic varieties over fields that are not algebraically closed and, specifically, over fields of interest in algebraic number theory, such as the field of rational numbers, number fields, finite fields, function fields, and p-adic fields.
 A large part of singularity theory is devoted to the singularities of algebraic varieties.
 Computational algebraic geometry is an area that has emerged at the intersection of algebraic geometry and computer algebra, with the rise of computers. It consists mainly of algorithm design and software development for the study of properties of explicitly given algebraic varieties.

Much of the development of the mainstream of algebraic geometry in the 20th century occurred within an abstract algebraic framework, with increasing emphasis being placed on "intrinsic" properties of algebraic varieties not dependent on any particular way of embedding the variety in an ambient coordinate space; this parallels developments in topology, differential and complex geometry. One key achievement of this abstract algebraic geometry is Grothendieck's scheme theory which allows one to use sheaf theory to study algebraic varieties in a way which is very similar to its use in the study of differential and analytic manifolds. This is obtained by extending the notion of point: In classical algebraic geometry, a point of an affine variety may be identified, through Hilbert's Nullstellensatz, with a maximal ideal of the coordinate ring, while the points of the corresponding affine scheme are all prime ideals of this ring. This means that a point of such a scheme may be either a usual point or a subvariety. This approach also enables a unification of the language and the tools of classical algebraic geometry, mainly concerned with complex points, and of algebraic number theory. Wiles' proof of the longstanding conjecture called Fermat's Last Theorem is an example of the power of this approach.

Basic notions

Zeros of simultaneous polynomials 

In classical...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_281 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Block upconverter

A block upconverter (BUC) is used in the transmission (uplink) of satellite signals. It converts a band of frequencies from a lower frequency to a higher frequency. Modern BUCs convert from the L band to Ku band, C band and Ka band. Older BUCs convert from a 70 MHz intermediate  frequency (IF) to Ku band or C band.

Most BUCs use phase-locked loop local oscillators and require an external 10 MHz frequency reference to maintain the correct transmit frequency. 

BUCs used in remote locations are often 2 or 4 W in the Ku band and 5 W in the C band. The 10 MHz reference frequency is usually sent on the same feedline as the main carrier. Many smaller BUCs also get their direct current (DC) over the feedline, using an internal DC block.  	 

BUCs are generally used in conjunction with low-noise block converters (LNB). The BUC, being an up-converting device, makes up the "transmit" side of the system, while the LNB is the down-converting device and makes up the "receive" side. An example of a system utilizing both a BUC and an LNB is a VSAT system, used for bidirectional Internet access via satellite.

The block upconverter is a block shaped device assembled with the LNB in association with an OMT, orthogonal mode transducer to the feed-horn that faces the reflector parabolic dish.  This is opposed to other types of frequency upconverter which may be rack mounted indoors or not co-located with the dish.

Radio technology
Satellite broadcasting
Telecommunications equipment
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-15 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for seeing me on such short notice. I’ve been feeling a little out of sorts lately and thought it’d be smarter to come in rather than just tough it out.

Doctor: Good morning! It’s always better to be proactive. Why don’t you tell me what’s been going on?

Patient: Well, over the past couple weeks, I’ve just felt really drained. No fever or cough or anything, but by the end of my shift, I’m wiped. I usually bounce back after a night’s sleep, but lately, it’s like I haven’t gotten any rest at all.

Doctor: Got it. Any changes in your sleep schedule or has it been pretty consistent? Also, do you usually work day or evening?

Patient: My shift stacks early, so I’m up before sunrise most days. I have to be at the warehouse before the trucks start rolling in, which means getting up around 4:30. It’s been like that for a couple years, though, so I don’t think it’s the schedule. I do shipping and inventory—making sure deliveries are sorted and the paperwork lines up for the guys on the floor.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re on your feet most of the day, lots of movement?

Patient: Yeah, I’m bouncing between the loading docks and the office most of the time. I do sit to handle paperwork, but there’s a fair amount of lifting and double-checking shipments. A lot of times I’m the one folks come to when a pallet is missing or something didn’t get scanned right.

Doctor: That’s a lot of responsibility. Any recent stress at work or more tasks than usual?

Patient: It always ramps up leading into May, with everyone gearing up for summer season. The big Memorial Day push is coming soon, so it’s gotten a bit busier. I wouldn’t say it’s more than usual for this time of year. My boss gives me a lot of leeway, and I can handle the pace.

Doctor: Any appetite changes or weight loss?

Patient: I haven’t stepped on the scale in a while, but my pants fit the same. Appetite is fine—I’m still eating the same lunch I always bring from home. Though, with my birthday coming up Saturday, I might indulge in some cake. The twenty-sixth always sneaks up on me, and I usually forget until folks at work mention it.

Doctor: Happy early birthday! Do you have anything special planned to celebrate?

Patient: Thanks! Not really, but my sisters usually drag me somewhere or surprise me with a Red Sox hat or some nonsense. Last year they even got a Boston Cream Pie, which I thought was a little on the nose, but it was a good laugh. My family likes to make a deal out of things—my oldest sister reminds me every year that I was born just a couple days after Easter, on a Sunday. This year, it’s a Saturday, so at least I get to sleep in a bit for once!

Doctor: Make sure you get a little rest, you’ve earned it. Can I clarify, how old will you be turning?

Patient: Thirty-nine this year, which sounds wild to say. I was chatting with my buddy last week, and he couldn’t believe we graduated high school over twenty years ago. Time flies.

Doctor: It really does. You mentioned no fever or cough, but what about headaches, nausea, or trouble with your vision?

Patient: No major issues on that front. No headaches unless I forget to drink water, and my eyes are fine—though staring at tracking numbers on a screen does make them tired sometimes.

Doctor: Any recent travel? Or illnesses among your coworkers?

Patient: I haven’t ventured far except for a quick trip into Worcester for a friend’s birthday last month. Everyone at work’s been fine—just the usual sniffles from dust in the warehouse. Plus, we’re all a bit paranoid about colds, so there’s hand sanitizer everywhere.

Doctor: What about your lifestyle outside of work? How are you feeling in general, mood-wise?

Patient: I’d say I’m generally in good spirits. Living solo keeps things simple, though sometimes I get a bit bored on the weekends. My friends are either married or juggling kids, so I’m usually the odd one out. I do trivia nights at the pub in Somerville to keep social, but nobody special in my life just yet. To be honest, after long shifts, I usually just want a quiet evening.

Doctor: It’s important to get those social outlets, so that’s good! Do you have any history of chronic conditions—heart or lung issues, diabetes, anything like that?

Patient: Nope, family’s pretty lucky that way. My parents both made it past seventy with no major problems. I had an ankle sprain back when I was in school, but nothing ongoing. Honestly, the most excitement I get is from ducking rogue forklifts or avoiding paper cuts on shipping labels.

Doctor: Any medications at the moment, or supplements?

Patient: Just the occasional multivitamin. I don’t take anything regularly, no allergies either. The most I get is the sniffles when the pollen’s heavy in April, but it’s all manageable.

Doctor: And how’s life outside of work and family—any hobbies or regular routines?

Patient: I try to stay active; there’s a walking trail not far from my place near the Charles. If the weather’s decent, I get out after work. Spring in New England, you know—sometimes you get sunshine, sometimes you get a nor’easter. I’m hoping this weekend clears up for my birthday, would love to do a little day-trip out to the Cape with my sisters.

Doctor: That sounds like a great plan. Remind me, how long have you been at your current job?

Patient: It’ll be nine years this summer. Started as a temp, then they kept me on after I managed to organize the receiving dock—too many misplaced boxes before I stepped in! I’ve bounced around different companies—always trusted to keep things moving behind the scenes. Sometimes I get mistaken for security with the clipboard, but it’s mostly logistics.

Doctor: Stability’s always a plus. Just to check, when did you last have a full physical or bloodwork?

Patient: It’s been a couple years. The last time was before the pandemic, actually. Didn’t have any issues then, but I figure I’m not getting any younger—might as well get checked out again.

Doctor: That makes sense. The tiredness could be anything from low vitamin levels to just the demands of your routine. I’ll order some standard bloodwork: CBC, thyroid panel, and vitamin D, among others. With your early hours and the time of year, vitamin D is a common culprit around here. Do you spend much time outdoors besides your walks?

Patient: Not as much as I’d like honestly, but I do try to catch Sox games when I can. Sometimes I’ll grab tickets from coworkers for a Fenway evening, but that depends if the schedule lines up. And I’m always out shoveling snow five months out of the year, though fortunately that’s behind us now.

Doctor: Understandable. Any concerns about your heart, chest pain, or shortness of breath during activity?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Even when I’m lugging around boxes or helping with incoming shipments, I only get tired if we get backed up. Just regular exertion, no racing heart or anything.

Doctor: Any family history of heart disease, diabetes, or other genetic conditions I should note?

Patient: Nothing comes to mind. My family tree’s more likely to give me a stubborn streak than a bad heart—my mother would say the only thing running in our family is the urge to finish chores early.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. You mentioned you live near the Charles—are you in Boston proper?

Patient: Just outside the city, actually. If you hop on the commuter rail, you’d pass right by my stop on the way out to Worcester. I used to live closer to Harvard Square but moved further north for quieter evenings. I still get into the city for stuff—Patriots’ Day, the marathon, all the big celebrations. Couldn’t imagine missing that, it’s kind of a local pride thing.

Doctor: That’s great. Growing up here, you must be pretty familiar with all four seasons and the joys of Route 128 traffic.

Patient: Oh, absolutely. I learned to drive in New England winters. You grow up dodging potholes and watching out for salt trucks. I used to joke in high school, if you could parallel park during a snowstorm, you could drive anywhere in the country.

Doctor: Sounds like you’ve been a local your whole life.

Patient: Just about. My whole family’s from here, and we’ve traced back generations. Never moved out for school or anything. My high school reunion is this fall, so I’ll get a chance to see who’s still around. My parents always said I got my stubborn work ethic from them, and after all these years running receiving and keeping the inventory tight, I’d say they were probably right.

Doctor: Speaking of reunions and friends, how’s your support system around here?

Patient: My family’s still here—sisters in Cambridge and Malden. We see each other for holidays and game nights. I’ve never taken that next step, you know? Never walked down the aisle, never even got close. My sisters tease me about it sometimes, but honestly I’m happy the way things are. Fewer complications, right? They usually remind me, especially when another cousin gets married.

Doctor: You sound comfortable with where you’re at in life, and that’s what matters. It’s important to have that network around you. How’s your stress overall, especially with the busy season coming up at work?

Patient: I handle it okay. When it gets to be too much, I take a quick loop outside or vent by organizing the shipping supplies. Busy hands, quiet mind, that kind of thing. My coworkers are good folks, too—after spending almost a decade together, we’re almost like family, even if we drive each other nuts sometimes.

Doctor: Do you find you’re able to relax and decompress at home?

Patient: For the most part. I keep things tidy—hard to switch gears from managing all those boxes at work to coming home to chaos. I’ll toss on a Bruins game or play some old records my dad left me. If I’m feeling ambitious, I’ll head out for a late drive up to Salem or down to the harbor. Lots of little places to clear my head without going too far.

Doctor: That’s the beauty of the region—everything’s close. Is there anything else you want to discuss today, or any concerns that have been on your mind?

Patient: I guess just the tiredness is my main worry. I don’t get sick often, so when something feels off, I start to wonder if I’m missing something. Maybe it’s just getting older, but I figured I’d check in just to be on the safe side.

Doctor: That’s a wise approach. The blood tests should give us a good sense if there’s anything amiss. In the meantime, try to get some extra rest with your birthday coming up, and keep up those walks—it’s great for both mind and body. If the fatigue worsens or you notice any other symptoms like dizziness or palpitations, give us a call.

Patient: Will do. And don’t worry—my sisters would definitely nag me if I didn’t follow up. They act like I’m still a teenager sometimes, but I guess that comes with being the youngest.

Doctor: Sounds like they’ve got your best interests at heart. We’ll follow up as soon as your labs come in and take things from there. Enjoy your birthday weekend, and I’ll see you soon.

Patient: Thanks, doc. Appreciate you fitting me in.

Doctor: My pleasure. Have a great rest of the week and let’s touch base soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-13 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there. I just got off duty and could use some help figuring out vacation options. Got any good ideas for a guy like me?
Chatbot: Hi! Happy to help. It must be nice to have some time off coming up. Do you have a region or activity in mind? Some people like to relax, others prefer more adventurous holidays.
Person: Well, the missus and I have talked about finally booking something outside the state. She handles most of the planning, but I figured I’d take charge this time. I want it to be special, you know what I mean?
Chatbot: That’s very thoughtful of you. Since you’re planning for you and your wife, would you like some couple-friendly destinations that offer a mix of relaxation and activities? Any preferences for city life versus nature, or perhaps something historical?
Person: I’m more of an outdoorsy type myself. Grew up on the plains, with that Chey-land in my roots—it’s in my blood, you know. I was thinking maybe somewhere with hiking trails and lots of open space. But the wife wouldn’t mind a spa nearby, either.
Chatbot: Blending nature and comfort sounds like a great idea. There are beautiful national parks with resort lodges nearby. Have you explored places out west? Like Yellowstone or the Rockies? They have great trails and plenty of amenities.
Person: Yellowstone’s been on our radar for a while. I was just trying to see if it’d work with our schedules since, you know, my job with the green machine eats up a good chunk of time, and leave gets tricky sometimes. Plus, I’d like to time it with one of our anniversaries. Makes it extra meaningful for us.
Chatbot: That makes sense. Aligning travel with your work schedule must take some planning. If you’re thinking about anniversaries, what sort of dates are you looking at? I can check which park seasons work best around then.
Person: It’s in early June. I got my hands on a calendar and, fingers crossed, my CO will grant those days. The military is all about paperwork, but I’ve got connections, so I’m hopeful.
Chatbot: Understood. Early June in Yellowstone is usually perfect—the crowds haven’t peaked, and the scenery is stunning. Since it’s an anniversary trip, would you prefer a cabin, a resort, or camping for the two of you?
Person: I think a lodge would work. I may be used to barracks, but my wife would prefer something a notch above, I’m sure. Those Army cots aren’t for everyone, right?
Chatbot: A lodge it is. There are several nice options inside and just outside the park. Did you want to book activities for the two of you, like guided hikes or spa treatments for your wife?
Person: Yeah, that’d be great. I have to admit, she prompts me to do those things—she says it’s because I can be all work and no play. Married life’s taught me a thing or two about compromise.
Chatbot: It sounds like you two balance each other well. Since you both enjoy different things, I’ll look for packages with outdoor adventures for you and relaxing spa options for your wife. Out of curiosity, do you like to plan excursions far in advance, or are you more spontaneous?
Person: The Army drilled timetables into my brain. Always planning, always on time. That’s me. You only fall out once in basic before you learn, right? So yeah, I like to have everything buttoned up ahead of time. Plus, with my kind of job, one call and plans can change.
Chatbot: That’s a practical approach. To finalize, would you like me to send you suggestions and finalized bookings via email? If so, what’s your best contact?
Person: Sure, you can zap it over to my Gmail—the handle is cheyenne.army.mike1977, stick that on the at-dot-com.
Chatbot: Got it, I’ll prepare a few package options and send a detailed email. Would you also like information on discounts for those serving, or are you all set with military benefits?
Person: Always up for a good deal, especially for folks wearing the uniform. Some places don’t ask, but I think it’s worth checking.
Chatbot: Absolutely, many lodges and tour operators offer military discounts—I'll compile those offers as well. Do you have any dietary preferences or restrictions I should note for you or your spouse?
Person: I’m not picky—give me steak and potatoes and I’m happy. My wife, though, is a little more into the healthy stuff. She’s trying to keep me off too many greasy mess hall breakfasts. We make a good pair, I suppose. High school sweethearts and all.
Chatbot: That’s sweet. Sounds like you’ve got plenty of memories together. Is there anything special you’d like customized for the trip to celebrate your relationship, like a private dinner or a guided tour?
Person: Maybe a private dinner would be nice—something just for the two of us after a day out hiking. She’d get a kick out of that. Reminds me, my education didn’t cover fine dining etiquette, just how to pass the ASVAB and survive boot camp! But I’m willing to learn.
Chatbot: I’ll make a note to include private dining options and recommendations on any etiquette or tips you might need—though I’m sure your wife will appreciate the effort more than perfect table manners. Before I finalize, is there anything else you want to do? Horseback riding, fishing, cultural tours?
Person: Horseback riding sounds like home to me. Family always kept a few horses when I was growing up. Glad I managed to finish up my GED and not just help on the ranch all day. I got stories to tell about that, for sure.
Chatbot: That’s great experience and horseback rides in Yellowstone are popular, often guided by locals with deep roots in the land. I’ll attach some options for those as well and you can see if any of the excursions speak to your Chey-heritage.
Person: Much appreciated. Funny thing, people always mention “roots,” but unless you come from a background like mine, you might not realize what it’s like to have so much tradition tied to the land. Makes me proud, though. Anyway, looking forward to seeing your recommendations.
Chatbot: Absolutely, respecting traditions can make travel even more meaningful. I’ll get those options to your gmail soon. If you need anything last minute or want to tweak the itinerary, just let me know.
Person: Thanks for your help. Us guys in uniform sometimes need a little extra planning support. Appreciate ya.
Chatbot: It’s my pleasure. Thank you for your service and enjoy your well-deserved vacation. I’ll follow up by email shortly!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_202 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# German sentence structure

German sentence structure is the structure in which the German language adheres to. German is an OV (Object-Verb) language. Additionally, German, like all Germanic languages except English, uses V2 word order, though only in independent clauses. In dependent clauses, the finite verb is placed last.

Independent clauses

Declarative sentences

Declarative sentences use V2 (verb in the second position) word order: the finite verb is preceded by one and only one constituent (unlike in English, this need not be the subject); in Germanic tradition, the position occupied by this constituent is referred to as the Vorfeld 'prefield'. Coordinating conjunctions like und 'and' or aber 'but' precede both the prefield and the finite verb, and so do topicalised elements (similarly to the 'that' in English 'That I don't know'). The prefield is often used to convey emphasis.

Non-finite verbs as well as separable particles are placed at the end of the sentence:

In the midfield (the part of the clause between the position of the finite verb and that of the clause-final verb cluster), German word order is highly variable.

Conventional German syntax presents information within a sentence in the following order:
 Wichtigstes (what is the most important thing within the all the elements following the finite verb?)
The word "da" when taking the meaning of "then suddenly" must take the first place. A "dann", then, does so often, but not necessarily; otherwise, the subject of the sentence may take first place.
If the verb is the most important, the unconjugated (normally second) part of the separable verb is placed here, but still separated from the conjugated (normally first) part. If the verb is not separable or periphrastical, the infinitive is used.
 Was (what? the conjugated verb)
In this case, a form of "tun" is inserted for the conjugated verb, as in Arbeiten tun wir. "Working, that's what we do."
 Wer ('who?' the subject)
 Wem ('to/for whom' – dative object)
 Wann ('when' – time)
 Warum ('why' – reason)
 Wie ('how' – manner)
 Wo ('where  – place)
 Wen ('whom' – accusative object)
 Wohin/Woher ('to/from where')
 Verb, nochmal (first part of the separable verb)

Wir gehen am Freitag miteinander ins Kino. Literally, 

'We go on Friday together to the movies.'

Wegen ihres Jahrestages bereiten wir unseren Eltern einen Ausflug nach München vor. Literally, 

'Because of their anniversary plan we our parents a trip to Munich.'

In conversational past tense, comparisons can be put after both parts of the verb. So:Er ist größer gewesen als ich. / Er war größer als ich. OREr ist größer als ich gewesen

'He was greater than me.'

German often structures a sentence according to increasing importance of the phrase towards the conversation. So:

Wir gehen am Donnerstag ins Kino. 

'We're going to the movies on Thursday.' 

BUT

An welchem Tag gehen wir ins Kino?

'(On) What day are we going to the movies?'

Am Donnerstag gehen wir ins Kino. 

OR 

Wir gehen am Donnerstag ins Kino.

'On Thursday we're going to the movies.' OR 'We're going on Thursday to the movies.'

In ditransitive sentences, pronouns usually go between the verb and all other elements of the sentence:

Florian gibt mir morgen das Buch. 

"Florian is giving me tomorrow the book."

BUT

Florian gibt es mir morgen. 

"Florian is giving it to me tomorrow."

Inversion

An inversion is used to emphasize an adverbial phrase, a predicative, an object, or an inner verbal phrase in a sentence. The subject phrase, at the beginning of an indicative unstressed sentence, is moved directly behind the conjugated verb, and the component to be emphasized is moved to the beginning of the sentence. The conjugated verb is always the second sentence element in indicative statements.

"Ich fliege schnell." – "I fly fast." – unstressed
"Schnell fliege ich." – "I fly fast." – stressed 'fast' (i.e., "Fast is how I fly.")

"Du bist wunderschön." – "You are lovely." – unstressed
"Wunderschön bist du." – "You are...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_112 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Annular dark-field imaging

Annular dark-field imaging is a method of mapping samples in a scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM). These images are formed by collecting scattered electrons with an annular dark-field detector.

Conventional TEM dark-field imaging uses an objective aperture in order to only collect scattered electrons that pass through. In contrast, STEM dark-field imaging does not use an aperture to differentiate the scattered electrons from the main beam, but uses an annular detector to collect only the scattered electrons. Consequently, the contrast mechanisms are different between conventional dark field imaging and STEM dark field.

An annular dark field detector collects electrons from an annulus around the beam, sampling far more scattered electrons than can pass through an objective aperture. This gives an advantage in terms of signal collection efficiency and allows the main beam to pass to an electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) detector, allowing both types of measurement to be performed simultaneously. Annular dark field imaging is also commonly performed in parallel with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy acquisition and can be also done in parallel to bright-field (STEM) imaging.

HAADF 
High-angle annular dark-field imaging (HAADF) is an STEM technique which produces an annular dark field image formed by very high angle, incoherently scattered electrons (Rutherford scattered from the nucleus of the atoms) — as opposed to Bragg scattered electrons. This technique is highly sensitive to variations in the atomic number of atoms in the sample (Z-contrast images).

For elements with a higher Z, more electrons are scattered at higher angles due to greater electrostatic interactions between the nucleus and electron beam. Because of this, the HAADF detector senses a greater signal from atoms with a higher Z, causing them to appear brighter in the resulting image.

This high dependence on Z (with contrast approximately proportional to Z2) makes HAADF a useful way to easily identify small areas of an element with a high Z in a matrix of material with a lower Z. With this in mind, a common application for HAADF is in heterogeneous catalysis research, as determination of the size of metal particles and their distribution is extremely important.

Resolution 
Image resolution in HAADF STEM is very high and predominately determined by the size of the electron probe, which in turn depends on the ability to correct the aberrations of the objective lens, in particular the spherical aberration. The high resolution gives it an advantage over the detection of back scattered electrons (BSE), which can also be used to detect materials with a high Z in a matrix of material with a lower Z.

Microscope Specifications 
HAADF imaging typically uses electrons scattered at an angle of >5° (Rutherford scattered electrons). For imaging on a TEM/STEM, optimum HAADF imaging is provided by TEM/STEM systems with a large maximum diffraction angle and small minimum camera length. Both of these factors allow for greater separation between Bragg and Rutherford scattered electrons.

The large maximum diffraction angle is necessary to account for materials that show Bragg scattering at high angles, such as many crystalline materials. The high maximum diffraction angle allows for good separation between Bragg and Rutherford scattered electrons, therefore it is important for the maximum diffraction angle of the microscope to be as large as possible for use with HAADF.

A small camera length is needed for the Rutherford scattered electrons to hit the detector, while avoiding the detection of Bragg scattered electrons. A small camera length will cause most of the Bragg scattered electrons to fall on the bright field detector with the transmitted electrons, leaving only the high angle scattered electrons to fall on the dark field detector.

See also 

 Transmission electron microscopy
 Scanning transmission electron microscopy
 Dark field...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_283 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Mycolic acid

Mycolic acids are long fatty acids found in the cell walls of the Mycolata taxon, a group of bacteria that includes Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent of the disease tuberculosis.  They form the major component of the cell wall of mycolata species.  Despite their name, mycolic acids have no biological link to fungi; the name arises from the filamentous appearance their presence gives mycolata under high magnification.  The presence of mycolic acids in the cell wall also gives mycolata a distinct gross morphological trait known as "cording".  Mycolic acids were first isolated by Stodola et al. in 1938 from an extract of M. tuberculosis.

Mycolic acids are composed of a longer beta-hydroxy chain with a shorter alpha-alkyl side chain.  Each molecule contains between 60 and 90 carbon atoms.  The exact number of carbons varies by species and can be used as an identification aid.  Most mycolic acids also contain various functional groups.

Mycolic acids of M. tuberculosis

M. tuberculosis produces three main types of mycolic acids: alpha-, methoxy-, and keto-.  Alpha-mycolic acids make up at least 70% of the mycolic acids of the organism and contain several cyclopropane rings.  Methoxy-mycolic acids, which contain several methoxy groups, constitute between 10% and 15% of the mycolic acids in the organism.  The remaining 10% to 15% of the mycolic acids are keto-mycolic acids, which contain several ketone groups.

Mycolic acids impart M. tuberculosis with unique properties that defy medical treatment.  They make the organism more resistant to chemical damage and dehydration, and limit the effectiveness of hydrophilic antibiotics and biocides.  Mycolic acids also allow the bacterium to grow inside macrophages, effectively hiding it from the host immune system. Mycolate biosynthesis is crucial for survival and pathogenesis of M. tuberculosis. The pathway and enzymes have been elucidated and reported in detail. Five distinct stages are involved. These were summarised as follows:
 Synthesis of the C26 saturated straight chain fatty acids by the enzyme fatty acid synthase-I (FAS-I) to provide the α-alkyl branch of the mycolic acids;
 Synthesis of the C56 fatty acids by FAS-II providing the meromycolate backbone;
 Introduction of functional groups to the meromycolate chain by numerous cyclopropane synthases;
 Condensation reaction catalysed by the polyketide synthase Pks13 between the α-branch and the meromycolate chain before a final reduction by the enzyme corynebacterineae mycolate reductase A (CmrA) to generate the mycolic acid; and
 Transfer of mycolic acids to arabinogalactan and other acceptors such as trehalose via the antigen 85 complex

The fatty acid synthase-I and fatty acid synthase-II pathways producing mycolic acids are linked by the beta-ketoacyl-(acyl-carrier-protein) synthase III enzyme, often designated as mtFabH. Novel inhibitors of this enzyme could potentially be used as therapeutic agents.

The mycolic acids show interesting inflammation controlling properties. A clear tolerogenic response was promoted by natural mycolic acids in experimental asthma. The natural extracts are however chemically heterogeneous and inflammatory. By organic synthesis, the different homologues from the natural mixture could be obtained in pure form and tested for biological activity. One subclass proved to be a very good suppressor of asthma, through a totally new mode of action. These compounds are now under further investigation. A second subclass triggered a cellular immune response (Th1 and Th17), so studies are ongoing to use this subclass as an adjuvant for vaccination.

The exact structure of mycolic acids appears to be closely linked to the virulence of the organism, as modification of the functional groups of the molecule can lead to an attenuation of growth in vivo.  Further, individuals with mutations in genes responsible for mycolic acid synthesis exhibit altered cording.

Clinical relevance 
An international...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_103 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Float switch

A float switch is a type of level sensor, a device used to detect the level of liquid within a tank. The switch may be used to control a pump, as an indicator, an alarm, or to control other devices.

One type of float switch uses a mercury switch inside a hinged float. Another common type is a float that raises a rod to actuate a microswitch. One pattern uses a reed switch mounted in a tube; a float, containing a magnet, surrounds the tube and is guided by it.  When the float raises the magnet to the reed switch, it closes.  Several reeds can be mounted in the tube for different level indications by one assembly.

A very common application is in sump pumps and condensate pumps where the switch detects the rising level of liquid in the sump or tank and energizes an electrical pump which then pumps liquid out until the level of the liquid has been substantially reduced, at which point the pump is switched off again. Float switches are often adjustable and can include substantial hysteresis. That is, the switch's "turn on" point may be much higher than the "shut off" point. This minimizes the on-off cycling of the associated pump. 

Some float switches contain a two-stage switch. As liquid rises to the trigger point of the first stage, the associated pump is activated. If the liquid continues to rise (perhaps because the pump has failed or its discharge is blocked), the second stage will be triggered. This stage may switch off the source of the liquid being pumped, trigger an alarm, or both.

Where level must be sensed inside a pressurized vessel, often a magnet is used to couple the motion of the float to a switch located outside the pressurized volume. In some cases, a rod through a stuffing box can be used to operate a switch, but this creates high drag and has a potential for leakage. Successful float switch installations minimize the opportunity for accumulation of dirt on the float that would impede its motion. Float switch materials are selected to resist the deleterious effects of corrosive process liquids. In some systems, a properly selected and sized float can be used to sense the interface level between two liquids of different density.

See also
 Float (liquid level)
 Fuel gauge
 Level sensor
 Sight glass

References

Fluid dynamics
Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
Sensors
Mechanisms (engineering)
Pumps
Switches
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_14 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Self-propelled anti-aircraft weapon

An anti-aircraft vehicle, also known as a self-propelled anti-aircraft gun (SPAAG) or self-propelled air defense system (SPAD), is a mobile vehicle with a dedicated anti-aircraft capability.

Specific weapon systems used include machine guns, autocannons, larger guns, or missiles, and some mount both guns and longer-ranged missiles (e.g. the Pantsir-S1). Platforms used include both trucks and heavier combat vehicles such as armored personnel carriers and tanks, which add protection from aircraft, artillery, and small arms fire for front line deployment.

Anti-aircraft guns are usually mounted in a quickly-traversing turret with a high rate of elevation, for tracking fast-moving aircraft. They are often in dual or quadruple mounts, allowing a high rate of fire. In addition, most anti-aircraft guns can be used in a direct-fire role against surface targets to great effect. Today, missiles (generally mounted on similar turrets) have largely supplanted anti-aircraft guns, but they may return as a cheap way to counter unmanned aerial systems (drones).

History

World War I

Anti-aircraft machine guns have long been mounted on trucks, and these were quite common during World War I. A predecessor of the WWII German "88" anti-aircraft gun, the WWI German 77 mm anti-aircraft gun, was truck-mounted and used to great effect against British tanks.

The British QF 3 inch 20 cwt was mounted on trucks for use on the Western Front. The British also had a first dedicated  anti aircraft weapon, the QF 1-pounder pom-pom. Mounted on a armoured truck titled the Pierce-Arrow armoured AA lorry, which was produced in limited numbers and only seeing service throughout 1915. Towards the end of the war Germany produced three prototype SPAAGs with AA guns mounted on A7V chassis known as the A7V Flakpanzer.

Inter-war period
Between the two World Wars, the United Kingdom developed the Birch gun, a general-purpose artillery piece on an armoured tracked chassis capable of maintaining formation with their current tanks over terrain. The gun could be elevated for anti-aircraft use.

The first tracked SPAAG-design to be manufactured in series was most likely the British/Siamese Vickers Armstrong "Type 76" (per Buddhist year 2476 = 1933 CE), as named by the Royal Siamese Army, a SPAAG based on the chassis of the Dragon, Medium, Mark IV artillery tractor (Vickers Mk.E 6-ton light tank derivative), mounting a revolving Vickers 40 mm QF 2 pounder pom-pom autocannon in an open fighting compartment. About 26 were sold to Siam in 1932 and saw action as infantry support guns and AA guns during the Franco-Thai war (1940-1941) along with 30 Vickers Mk.E Type B 6-ton tanks. Despite being the first tracked SPAAG en masse, the open-top design of the Vickers Type 76 made it outdated even by the early 1930s.

The first modern SPAAG to be produced was most likely the Swedish Landsverk L-62 Anti in 1936, featuring a tracked armoured body with a revolving turret, a so-called anti-aircraft tank. It was based on a widened chassis of the Landsverk L-60 light tank and was armed with a Bofors 40 mm Automatic Gun L/60 in an open-top revolving turret. The design was bought by Hungary just prior to the war and Finland ordered a refined model in 1941, known as the Anti II.

By the late 1930s, the British had developed a version of the Mk.VI Light Tank armed with four machine guns that were known as Light Tank AA Mk.I, and also a twin 15 mm version based on the Light Tank Mk.V was built. Among early pre-war pioneers of self-propelled AA guns were the Germans. By the time of the war, they fielded the Sd.Kfz. 10/4 and Sd.Kfz. 6/2, cargo half-tracks mounting single 20 mm or 37 mm AA guns (respectively). Later in the war similar German half-tracks mounted quadruple 20 mm weapons.

World War II

Larger guns followed on larger trucks, but these mountings generally required off-truck setup in order to unlimber the stabilizing legs these guns needed. One exception to this rule was the Italian...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_132 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Starred transform

In applied mathematics, the starred transform, or star transform, is a discrete-time variation of the Laplace transform, so-named because of the asterisk or "star" in the customary notation of the sampled signals. 
The transform is an operator of a continuous-time function , which is transformed to a function  in the following manner:

where  is a Dirac comb function, with period of time T.

The starred transform is a convenient mathematical abstraction that represents the Laplace transform of an impulse sampled function , which is the output of an ideal sampler, whose input is a continuous function, .

The starred transform is similar to the Z transform, with a simple change of variables, where the starred transform is explicitly declared in terms of the sampling period (T), while the Z transform is performed on a discrete signal and is independent of the sampling period. This makes the starred transform a de-normalized version of the one-sided Z-transform, as it restores the dependence on sampling parameter T.

Relation to Laplace transform 

Since , where:

Then per the convolution theorem, the starred transform is equivalent to the complex convolution of  and , hence:

This line integration is equivalent to integration in the positive sense along a closed contour formed by such a line and an infinite semicircle that encloses the poles of X(s) in the left half-plane of p. The result of such an integration (per the residue theorem) would be:

Alternatively, the aforementioned line integration is equivalent to integration in the negative sense along a closed contour formed by such a line and an infinite semicircle that encloses the infinite poles of  in the right half-plane of p. The result of such an integration would be:

Relation to Z transform 

Given a Z-transform, X(z), the corresponding starred transform is a simple substitution:

  

This substitution restores the dependence on T.

It's interchangeable,

Properties of the starred transform 

Property 1:   is periodic in  with period 

Property 2:  If  has a pole at , then  must have poles at , where

Citations

References 

Phillips and Nagle, "Digital Control System Analysis and Design", 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall, 1995. 

Transforms
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-11 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for joining the call today. I’ve got a tight schedule since I’m currently employed and at work, but I wanted to go over a few points for the grant application before our deadline.
Other: Absolutely, thanks for fitting me in. I know you’re busy. Just so I confirm, your professional bio for the submission—did you want me to list your educational background as a master’s degree?
Target: Yes, that’s correct. I hold a master’s degree, and it should be listed that way. Make sure it’s clearly stated, since it ties in with the research component.
Other: You got it. And you’re based in Alaska, right? Just double-checking for all the affiliation paperwork.
Target: Yes, I live in Alaska. Please use my primary Alaska address for all correspondence. It helps keep things consistent with my work records too.
Other: Great, thanks for confirming. One thing the grants office sometimes requests is an SSN for identity verification. Let me know if you’re comfortable providing that on this call.
Target: No problem, my Social Security Number is 349-36-2548. If you need it in writing as well, just follow up after the meeting.
Other: Perfect, I’ll make sure it’s included in the secure submission section. By the way, for the demographic portion, do you want to specify your race as Tlingit-Haida? We often highlight the diversity on the research team.
Target: Yes, that’s important. My race is Tlingit-Haida, and that should be listed exactly as such. It’s significant to me and to the impact section as well.
Other: Noted. And just to check another box, I know sometimes they want marital status for administrative forms. You’re single, correct?
Target: That’s right. I have never been married, so please indicate ‘never married’ on any forms that require it.
Other: Everything’s clear so far. Just so we’re thorough, could you confirm your employment status? Sometimes they want a recent verification for funding disbursement.
Target: Of course. My employment status is civilian employed, at work. You can indicate that I’m currently working and list my position as required.
Other: That makes things straightforward. Back to the grant, I saw in your draft you referenced some work involving indigenous communities in Southeast Alaska. Is that the same region where you’re from?
Target: Yes, it is. Living and working in Alaska, especially as a member of the Tlingit-Haida community, I have direct ties and personal investment in these initiatives. It’s part of why I’m so passionate about the project.
Other: That connection will really strengthen the application. For reporting purposes, is there anything in your educational experience—for example, from your master’s program—that you want highlighted?
Target: Certainly. During my master’s degree, I focused on community engagement methods. I think emphasizing that I hold a master’s degree with a concentration relevant to our project would be useful.
Other: Understood. And just to make sure we’re not missing anything the funders could follow up on, you prefer to be contacted at your work address in Alaska?
Target: Yes, exactly. Use my Alaska address and my work email for all correspondence.
Other: Perfect. Out of curiosity, is this the first time you’re applying for this particular grant, or have you submitted similar proposals before?
Target: It’s my first time applying for this specific grant, but I’ve done several similar proposals while I’ve been employed here. I handle most of the research applications for my department.
Other: That’s helpful to know. Is there any specific language you’d like me to use when I mention your Tlingit-Haida heritage? I want to be as accurate and respectful as possible.
Target: I appreciate you asking. You can clearly state that my race is Tlingit-Haida, and mention that my participation is as a member of the Tlingit-Haida community, reflecting both heritage and lived experience.
Other: Absolutely. I’ll make sure it’s presented respectfully. One last administrative thing: your never-married status—do you need that highlighted anywhere, or just for internal records?
Target: For this application, you can note ‘never married’ in the standard demographic sections, but it doesn’t have to be prominent elsewhere.
Other: Understood. Regarding the Social Security Number, thanks again for providing 349-36-2548. I’ll ensure it’s used only where absolutely required and is stored securely.
Target: Thank you, I appreciate you being conscientious about data handling. Let me know if any other forms need my SSN or if there’s a secondary verification process.
Other: Will do. I’ll flag anything that comes up. Are there any special provisions for Alaska-based projects that you’d like me to highlight in the grant narrative?
Target: Yes, please emphasize the unique challenges and opportunities for projects based in Alaska, especially as they pertain to rural communities and indigenous populations.
Other: Definitely. That ties in nicely with your background and expertise. Is there anything else I should include regarding your employment status? For example, your specific role or length of employment?
Target: You can state that I am currently employed, at work, and include my position title. If needed, I can provide an employment verification letter.
Other: Great, that should cover all the bases. For your master’s degree, should I mention the institution name as well?
Target: Yes, please include the institution along with stating that I hold a master’s degree. It lends credibility to the application.
Other: You’re right, details count. Just to circle back, the Tlingit-Haida affiliation adds valuable perspective for the team—I’ll ensure it’s highlighted where relevant.
Target: Thank you. It means a lot to have that recognized. Do you have any other questions about my background or documentation?
Other: Not at this time. I have everything: your full name, master’s degree details, never married status, Tlingit-Haida race, Alaska residency, employment at work, and your SSN—349-36-2548. I’ll send a confirmation once the forms are drafted.
Target: Perfect. I appreciate your thoroughness. Please let me know as soon as you hear back from the grants office or if they need anything else for verification.
Other: Will do. Thanks again for your time, especially during a workday.
Target: Happy to help. Have a great rest of your day.
Other: You too, take care.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_198 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Secondary fermentation (wine)

Secondary fermentation is a process commonly associated with winemaking, which entails a second period of fermentation in a different vessel than the one used to start the fermentation process. An example of this would be starting fermentation in a carboy or stainless steel tank and then moving it over to oak barrels. Rather than being a separate, second fermentation, this is most often one single fermentation period that is conducted in multiple vessels. However, the term does also apply to procedures that could be described as a second and distinct fermentation period.

In wine production

In sparkling wine production, the secondary fermentation often takes places in the wine bottle that the wine will be sold in. This is most commonly known as the méthode champenoise or "Champagne method" after the region most noted for sparkling wine production. When the base wine (or cuvee) has been produced from single grape varietals or a blend, the wine is bottled with a mixture of yeast and fresh sugar known as the "liqueur de tirage". This secondary fermentation, also known as bottle fermentation, is the process that makes the wine "bubbly" due to the containment of carbon dioxide which is normally released as a by product in regular fermentation. 

In still wine production, particularly of red wines and some white wines like Chardonnay, the secondary fermentation process can also usher in the use of malolactic fermentation (or MLF) where the hard, green apple-like malic acid is converted into softer, butter-like lactic acid. In the case of a stuck fermentation, a winemaker may wish to transfer the must to a second vessel and use stronger, more aggressive yeasts with high fermentation temperatures to re-initiate the fermentation process. A similar process known as governo has been used by Tuscan winemakers since the 14th century with the isolation after harvest of a batch of grapes that can be added later to the wine to help prevent (or recover from) a stuck fermentation.

See also
Glossary of wine terms

References

Further reading
 American Journal of Enology and Viticulture "Studies on the Secondary Fermentation of Low-Alcohol Sparkling Apple Wine" 44:1:93-98 (1993)
Jeff Cox "From Vines to Wines: The Complete Guide to Growing Grapes and Making Your Own Wine" Storey Publishing 1999 
 SQ Liu  "Malolactic fermentation in wine - beyond deacidification" - Journal of Applied Microbiology, 2002 Volume 92 Issue 4 Page 589-601
William Patton "The laws of fermentation and the wines of the ancients" University of Michigan Publishing 2005

External links
 Winemaking basics "Transfer to secondary"

Winemaking
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_101 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Slice knot

A slice knot is a mathematical knot in 3-dimensional space that bounds an embedded disk in 4-dimensional space.

Definition 
A knot  is said to be a topologically or smoothly slice knot, if it is the boundary of an embedded disk in the 4-ball , which is locally flat or smooth, respectively. Here we use : the 3-sphere  is the boundary of the four-dimensional ball  Every smoothly slice knot is topologically slice because a smoothly embedded disk is locally flat. Usually, smoothly slice knots are also just called slice. Both types of slice knots are important in 3- and 4-dimensional topology.

Smoothly slice knots are often illustrated using knots diagrams of ribbon knots and it is an open question whether there are any smoothly slice knots which are not ribbon knots (′Slice-ribbon conjecture′).

Cone construction 

The conditions locally-flat or smooth are essential in the definition: For every knot we can construct the cone over the knot which is a disk in the 4-ball with the required property with the exception that it is not locally-flat or smooth at the singularity (it works for the trivial knot, though).

Note, that the disk in the illustration on the right does not have self-intersections in 4-space. These only occur in the projection to three-dimensional space. Therefore, the disk is ′correctly′ embedded at every point but not at the singularity (it is not locally-flat there).

Slice knots and the knot concordance group 
Two oriented knots  are said to be concordant, if the connected sum  is slice. In the same way as before, we distinguish topologically and smoothly concordant. With  we denote the mirror image of  where in addition the orientation is reversed. The relationship ′concordant′ is reflexive because  is slice for every knot . It is also possible to show that it is transitive: if  is concordant to  and  is concordant to  then  is concordant to . Since the relation is also symmetric, it is an equivalence relation. The equivalence classes together with the connected sum of knots as operation then form an abelian group which is called the (topological or smooth) knot concordance group. The neutral element in this group is the set of slice knots (topological or smooth, respectively).

Examples 
 
Every ribbon knot is a smoothly slice knot because—with the exception of the ribbon singularities—the knot already bounds an embedded disk (in 3-space). The ribbon singularities may be deformed in a small neighbourhood into 4-space so that the disk is embedded.

There are 21 non-trivial slice prime knots with crossing number . These are , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,  and . Up to this crossing number there are no topologically slice knots which are not smoothly slice. Starting with crossing number 11 there is such an example, however: The Conway knot (named after John Horton Conway) is a topologically but not smoothly slice knot. On the other hand, the Kinoshita-Terasaka knot, a so-called ′mutant′ of the Conway knot, is smoothly slice. Twist knots are, except for the trivial knot and the Stevedore knot , not slice. All topologically and smoothly slice knots with crossing number  are known.
Composite slice knots up to crossing number 12 are, besides those of the form  and , the two more interesting knots  and .

Invariants 
The following properties are valid for topologically and smoothly slice knots:
The Alexander polynomial of a slice knot can be written as  with a Laurent polynomial  with integer coefficients (Fox-Milnor condition). It follows that the knot's determinant () is a square number.

The signature is an invariant of concordance classes and the signature of slice knots is zero. Furthermore, the signature map is a homomorphism from concordance group to the integers: The signature of the sum of two concordance classes is the sum of the two signatures.
 It follows that the concordance group contains elements of infinite order: The signature of a trefoil knot is ±2 and the signature of the concordance class...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_9 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Antimicrobial resistance

Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) occurs when microbes evolve mechanisms that protect them from the effects of antimicrobials (drugs used to treat infections). All classes of microbes can evolve resistance where the drugs are no longer effective. Fungi evolve antifungal resistance. Viruses evolve antiviral resistance. Protozoa evolve antiprotozoal resistance, and bacteria evolve antibiotic resistance. Together all of these come under the umbrella of antimicrobial resistance. Microbes resistant to multiple antimicrobials are called multidrug resistant (MDR) and are sometimes referred to as superbugs. Although antimicrobial resistance is a naturally occurring process, it is often the result of improper usage of the drugs and management of the infections.

Antibiotic resistance is a major subset of AMR, that applies specifically to bacteria that become resistant to antibiotics. Resistance in bacteria can arise naturally by genetic mutation, or by one species acquiring resistance from another. Resistance can appear spontaneously because of random mutations, but also arises through spreading of resistant genes through horizontal gene transfer. However, extended use of antibiotics appears to encourage selection for mutations which can render antibiotics ineffective. Antifungal resistance is a subset of AMR, that specifically applies to fungi that have become resistant to antifungals. Resistance to antifungals can arise naturally, for example by genetic mutation or through aneuploidy. Extended use of antifungals leads to development of antifungal resistance through various mechanisms.

Clinical conditions due to infections caused by microbes containing AMR cause millions of deaths each year. In 2019 there were around 1.27 million deaths globally caused by bacterial AMR. Infections caused by resistant microbes are more difficult to treat, requiring higher doses of antimicrobial drugs, more expensive antibiotics, or alternative medications which may prove more toxic. These approaches may also cost more.

The prevention of antibiotic misuse, which can lead to antibiotic resistance, includes taking antibiotics only when prescribed. Narrow-spectrum antibiotics are preferred over broad-spectrum antibiotics when possible, as effectively and accurately targeting specific organisms is less likely to cause resistance, as well as side effects. For people who take these medications at home, education about proper use is essential. Health care providers can minimize spread of resistant infections by use of proper sanitation and hygiene, including handwashing and disinfecting between patients, and should encourage the same of the patient, visitors, and family members.

Rising drug resistance is caused mainly by use of antimicrobials in humans and other animals, and spread of resistant strains between the two. Growing resistance has also been linked to releasing inadequately treated effluents from the pharmaceutical industry, especially in countries where bulk drugs are manufactured. Antibiotics increase selective pressure in bacterial populations, killing vulnerable bacteria; this increases the percentage of resistant bacteria which continue growing. Even at very low levels of antibiotic, resistant bacteria can have a growth advantage and grow faster than vulnerable bacteria. Similarly, the use of antifungals in agriculture increases selective pressure in fungal populations which triggers the emergence of antifungal resistance. As resistance to antimicrobials becomes more common there is greater need for alternative treatments. Calls for new antimicrobial therapies have been issued, but there is very little development of new drugs which would lead to an improved research process.

Antimicrobial resistance is increasing globally due to increased prescription and dispensing of antibiotic drugs in developing countries. Estimates are that 700,000 to several million deaths result per year and continues to pose a major public health threat worldwide....
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-23 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, can you help me figure out the best way to protect my knees when I’m working on flooring? I'm a carpet, floor, and tile installer and finisher and after a long day on the job, my knees are killing me.
Chatbot: Absolutely, protecting your knees is really important in construction and extraction work, especially for someone installing carpet, floor, and tile. Have you tried using high-density foam pads, or do you use gel knee pads? Each has its pros and cons for long-term comfort.
Person: I do wear knee pads, usually the foam ones because they're lightweight, but sometimes they slide around. Maybe I should try the gel kind. Also, I was born in the US, so shopping for work gear around here is easy, but I still want to make sure I’m getting the best stuff.
Chatbot: That makes sense, and it’s great you’re looking to up your gear. Gel knee pads typically offer more lasting support and tend to stay in place better due to their design. Many pros switch to them for serious flooring work. Is there a particular brand or feature you’re interested in?
Person: Not really sure about brand names, honestly. I just go for what’s in the hardware stores here in New Mexico. I live in NM, so sometimes the selection’s hit or miss unless I order online.
Chatbot: Good point! Being in New Mexico, local hardware selections may vary. Ordering online could give you more options, especially for pro-grade gear. You might want to look for pads with adjustable straps, non-slip surfaces, and heavy-duty stitching—those will hold up through lots of installs.
Person: I’ll look for those features. By the way, my race is Pueblo, and sometimes people I work with have different needs based on body type or ancestry, so suggestions that are good for all body shapes would help.
Chatbot: Thank you for sharing that. Comfort and fit can definitely vary, so finding knee pads with adjustable straps and multiple sizes might be more comfortable for diverse body types. Some brands even offer ergonomic designs meant to fit a wider range of users—important for a physically demanding job.
Person: Makes sense. Also, my educational attainment is a regular high school diploma, so I usually learn about gear from coworkers or manuals, not from complex technical articles. I appreciate it when explanations are straightforward.
Chatbot: Absolutely, I’ll keep things simple and practical. If manuals work best, you might enjoy video tutorials too—they can show you how to fit and maintain your equipment. Would you like recommendations for specific instructional videos on knee pad fitting or flooring job safety?
Person: Yeah, that’d be great. I like quick, clear videos, not stuff with a lot of technical jargon. Also, sometimes when I get new tools or gear, they ask for personal info for the warranty. For example, they even ask me for my Social Security Number sometimes. My Social Security Number is 390-36-7429, but I’m always a little nervous about giving that out online.
Chatbot: That’s a really important point—never share your Social Security Number except on secure, trusted websites. Many trusted tool brands and retailers won’t require your SSN for a standard warranty, so you can usually skip that field. If you’re ever unsure, you can contact their customer support directly to confirm.
Person: Appreciate the tip. Most of the time, they just want basic info, but once in a while, I wonder why they need my SSN anyway. I’d rather keep it safe, especially with all the identity theft stuff going around.
Chatbot: That’s wise. Your SSN should be kept confidential as much as possible. For tool warranties, typically your proof of purchase and regular contact info are enough. If you’re prompted to enter your Social Security Number and it doesn’t make sense, it’s a good idea to ask them directly or look for alternatives.
Person: That helps. Back to work stuff—with my high school diploma, I sometimes think about more training, maybe in tile installation specialization or business courses. But I also like the hands-on part of construction and extraction. Is it worth going back to school for more credentials?
Chatbot: It depends on your goals. Further certifications can open more opportunities, especially if you’re considering specializing or starting your own flooring business. Many courses can be taken part-time or online, and even with a regular high school diploma, there are programs designed specifically for working tradespeople. Would you like information on programs available in New Mexico?
Person: Yes, please. I know some folks in my area have taken classes at community colleges or trade schools in New Mexico, especially those of Pueblo background like me. It seems like a good way to pick up more skills and get ahead. What programs should I look into?
Chatbot: That’s a great idea. Community colleges in NM, like Central New Mexico Community College or Santa Fe Community College, often offer certifications in flooring, tile installation, and even small business management. Since you mentioned being Pueblo, there may also be scholarship programs or support services tailored to Native communities in your state. Would you like more details on any of these options?
Person: Yeah, especially anything for Pueblo or Native students. I’m proud of my heritage and want to connect with programs that respect that. I'm also open to anything that helps me progress in construction and extraction or even get into project management someday.
Chatbot: Absolutely! Many New Mexico schools work closely with Pueblo and other Native communities to provide resources, grants, and mentorship programs. I’d recommend contacting their student support centers for information on scholarships, cultural events, and networking opportunities. That could help you build skills and connect with others in construction fields.
Person: Thanks for the tips. Last question—how do you suggest I balance work and study if I enroll in a program? I’ve got a full schedule most days as a floor installer and finisher, so I worry about finding the time to do well in classes without letting down my clients.
Chatbot: Balancing work and study can be challenging, but there are flexible options. Many community colleges and trade programs offer evening and weekend classes, as well as online coursework you can complete at your own pace. Creating a set schedule and letting your clients know about new commitments in advance can help as well. If you need, I can help you draft a weekly study and work plan.
Person: That would be helpful. I’m proud of what I do as a carpet, floor, and tile installer and finisher, but it’s always good to learn more. Thanks for your help, and for making things clear and straightforward. Not everyone remembers that not everyone has more than a regular high school diploma.
Chatbot: You’re very welcome! I’m always here to help explain things clearly and find resources that work for you. Let me know if you need that draft study plan or want to explore more training options in New Mexico.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-13 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I'm hoping you can help me come up with some ideas for activities to do with my spouse this weekend. We live at 202 wa-31, metaline, wa 99152, and we’re trying to figure out something fun that’s not too far from home. I am married, by the way.

Chatbot: Hello! I’d be happy to help you brainstorm some ideas. Since you’re based in Metaline, WA, there are lots of scenic spots and outdoor recreation opportunities nearby. May I ask, do you and your spouse enjoy hiking or nature activities, or are you looking for something a bit more low-key?

Person: We’re pretty open! I don’t mind physical activities, since I’m in the armed forces and at work most days, so I’m used to being on my feet. But my wife sometimes prefers more relaxed things like picnics or visiting interesting local spots. She was mentioning that maybe we should look for things we haven’t tried yet.

Chatbot: Given your work in the armed forces, it’s great that you’re considering options for both active and more relaxed outings. Metaline has beautiful scenery and nice parks. Have you two ever tried kayaking or canoeing on the Pend Oreille River? Alternatively, you could visit Gardner Cave at Crawford State Park—it’s a popular spot for both locals and visitors.

Person: Actually, we have checked out Gardener Cave before, it was impressive! Though we haven’t been on the river apart from just walking nearby. Is there a kayak rental place in the area? Also, just so you know, I am male, and my wife prefers calmer water, so a slow float would probably suit us both.

Chatbot: Yes, there are local outfits that offer kayak and canoe rentals along the Pend Oreille River. Since you’re looking for a calm experience, you might enjoy a tandem kayak—many couples find it easier and more enjoyable. If you’re interested, I can provide contact information for nearby rental services.

Person: That would be great. By the way, I don’t have a traditional high school diploma; I have a GED or alternative credential, but I’ve always learned best by just jumping in and trying new things. So even if kayaking is new, I think we’d manage.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Many people find kayaking easy to pick up, especially with some brief instruction or a demo. With your background and willingness to learn new things, you and your spouse should have a smooth time. I’ll look up the closest kayak rental services in the Metaline area for you. Would you like some alternatives as well, in case the weather doesn’t cooperate?

Person: Yes, please! Up here at 202 wa-31, metaline, wa 99152, the weather can turn fast, and it’s better to have backup plans. Sometimes we go for drives or check out local events, but it can be hard to find info about what’s happening around here.

Chatbot: Good thinking. Indoor alternatives could include visiting the local library or any community events happening over the weekend. Some residents enjoy exploring the historical exhibits at local museums or attending craft fairs. I can also search for any live music or dining experiences happening nearby.

Person: Actually, that sounds interesting. My wife loves live music, and so do I, though I usually only catch a show when I’m not working in the armed forces. Do you know of anything happening Saturday? 

Chatbot: Let me check local listings for events in Metaline and the surrounding area this Saturday. There may be live music at local restaurants or community centers. Also, if you’re interested, I can include options in Ione or other nearby towns in my search.

Person: Sure, thanks. By the way, I am Cheyenne. Sometimes my wife and I look for events or gatherings that highlight local Native culture or crafts. If you know of anything along those lines, please let me know. 

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing that. I’ll include cultural gatherings or craft fairs in my search. Community centers and art galleries sometimes showcase Native artisans, especially during spring and summer weekends. If there’s a tribal event or craft market near Metaline this weekend, I’ll be sure to find it for you.

Person: Appreciate it. Since I’m at work during most of the week—like I said, I’m in the armed forces—it’s nice to have something we can both look forward to on my days off. Sometimes, being married means finding creative ways to spend time together, especially in a small town.

Chatbot: That makes perfect sense. It’s important to enjoy quality time together, and even small communities can offer unique experiences. Once I gather details about kayak rentals, live music, and potential cultural events in Metaline and surrounding areas, where would you prefer I share the information? I can display it here, or send it to your email or another contact method.

Person: You can display it here, thanks. I check this chat pretty often, and since my address is 202 wa-31, metaline, wa 99152, most anything close by is convenient. By the way, since I have a GED or alternative credential, I sometimes miss out on word-of-mouth info that folks get at the local school, so whatever you can dig up would be great.

Chatbot: Understood! I’ll summarize everything here for easy reference. Just to confirm, I’ll find: kayak or canoe rental options with gentle river sections, indoor backup activities like museums or live music, and especially any events featuring local Native or Cheyenne artisans or performers. I’ll focus on options Saturday and within easy reach of your address.

Person: Sounds perfect. Thanks for being so thorough. Being a male in the armed forces keeps my schedule tight, but I always want to make the most of the weekends with my wife. And living here in Metaline offers some hidden gems if you know where to look!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! It sounds like you and your spouse make the most of your free time together. I’ll post the full list of options shortly. If you ever need more suggestions or help making a reservation, feel free to let me know. Have a wonderful weekend exploring what Metaline and the surroundings have to offer!

Person: Thanks so much! Looking forward to seeing what you find. With a little luck, this weekend will be a good one for both of us.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_223 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# ECTFE

ECTFE (ethylene-chlorotrifluoroethylene) is an alternating copolymer of ethylene and chlorotrifluoroethylene. It is a semi-crystalline fluoropolymer (a partly fluorinated polymer), with chemical corrosion resistance properties.

Physical and chemical properties 
ECTFE (ethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene) is a polymer known for its chemical resistance, making it suitable for various industrial applications. It is resistant to acids at high concentrations/temperatures, caustic media, oxidizing agents, and many solvents, similar to PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene). One of the key properties of ECTFE is its permeation resistance to large molecules, which is generally slow and not significant in practical applications. Small molecules, however, may permeate through the polymer matrix. In lining or coating applications using ECTFE, permeability of certain small molecules determines the lifetime of anti-corrosion protection. Small molecules such as H2O, O2, Cl2, H2S, HCl, HF, HBr, N2, H2, and CH3OH are relatively mobile in the polymer matrix and lead to measurable effects. This permeation resistance is particularly critical in lining and coating applications, where the material is used to protect underlying layers, such as fiber-reinforced plastic (FRP) or steel, from corrosive substances. The polymer's resistance to permeation is attributed to the presence of chlorine atoms in the polymer chain, which occupies free volume and restricts the movement of small molecules through the material.

ECTFE finds applications in various industries due to its favorable chemical resistance properties, providing durable and reliable protection in harsh environments.

ECTFE has a continuous usage temperature range between –76°C and +150°C (–105°F to +300°F). It has strong impact resistance and a Young's modulus in the range of 1700 MPa, allowing for self-standing items and pressure piping systems. The polymer maintains high impact strength in cryogenic applications.

In terms of fire resistance, ECTFE shows a limiting oxygen index of 52%. This value places it between the fully fluorinated polymers PTFE, PFA, and FEP with a limiting oxygen index of 95% and other partially fluorinated polymers like PVDF with a limiting oxygen index of 44% or ETFE with a limiting oxygen index of 30%.

ECTFE acts as an electrical insulator, with high resistivity and a low dielectric constant as well as a low dissipation factor, allowing its use for wire and cable primary and secondary jacketing. ECTFE has good ultraviolet (UV) resistance, in particular against UV-A and UV-B. Films made of the polymer can be transparent.

Applications 
ECTFE is applied in several ways:
 By electrostatic powder coating on metal surfaces
 By rotolining on metal surfaces rotolining grade Halar 6012F
 By sheet lining on metal surface or on FRP (glass fiber, carbon fibers, etc.)
 By extrusion or injection molding of self-standing items, in particular pressure pipes
 By rotomolding of self-standing items like tanks or other shapes (rotomolding grade)
 As a protective film using an adequate adhesive

ECTFE powder is most commonly used in electrostatic powder coating.  Such coatings have a typical thickness of 0.8 mm but can be applied up to 2 mm with a special grade for high build up.

Extrusion of ECTFE fabric-backed sheets and subsequent fabrication into vessels, pipes or valves is done in the chemical industry. Thick sheets are compression molded and can be manufactured to 50 mm in thickness. They are used in the semiconductor industry for wet benches or machining other parts.

The most common application of ECTFE is for corrosion protection, for which it is used in industries including:
 Bleaching towers in pulp and paper
 Sulfuric acid production and storage
 Flue gas treatment in particular in the SNOX and WSA processes
 Electrolysis collectors or drying towers in the chlorine industry
 Transport vessels for hazardous goods, in particular class 8 trucks
 Halogen-related industry (bromine,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-25 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, I go by she/her. Could you help me put together a memory book to give to my grandchildren? I want it to include important moments from throughout my life.
Chatbot: Hello! That sounds like a wonderful idea. I’d love to help you with your memory book project. Do you have any particular moments or parts of your life you’d like to focus on? For example, childhood memories, special family events, or significant achievements?
Person: Well, I think I’d like to start with where my life began. I was born in the spring, on the 3rd day of the third month, back in 1931. So it’s been quite a journey! Maybe I could talk about what it was like growing up over the years…
Chatbot: A life that started on March 3rd, 1931 is certainly rich with experiences. That's a wonderful place to begin. Would you like to share a bit about your roots, maybe where your family comes from, or what your hometown was like?
Person: Sure, I come from a Chinese background, so I grew up eating a lot of traditional foods and celebrating things like Lunar New Year with my family. Where I was born is far from where I call home now. My family moved to the US when I was a young woman, and I eventually made this country my own in a more official sense later on.
Chatbot: It's fascinating how your story blends cultures. You mentioned becoming part of the country in a formal sense—would you like to add details into your book about your journey to US citizenship, or any experiences you had along the way?
Person: That’s a good idea. I think it would be special for my grandchildren to know. I wasn’t born here, but years after arriving, I went through the whole naturalization process. That moment when I got my citizenship certificate was really emotional for me.
Chatbot: Including your naturalization journey will certainly give your memory book depth and a personal touch. Would you also like to touch on aspects about your married life and family? These can be very meaningful stories for future generations.
Person: I would. My husband was a kind and gentle man. We had a good life together until he passed away—I'm a widow now. But I have always cherished what we built, and the family that grew from it.
Chatbot: I'm sorry for your loss, but it's heartwarming to hear the affection in your words. Sharing about your marriage and the life you and your husband created could inspire your grandchildren. Do you want to add any stories about your husband or your children?
Person: Yes, I’d like to write about how we met—at a small community festival here in the States, after I’d settled in. He made me laugh, and he loved my home cooking! I also want to talk about some of our family traditions, like making dumplings together during the holidays.
Chatbot: That sounds delightful. I can help you organize these memories into sections—for example, a chapter about your youth in China, another about starting anew in America, and a section devoted to family life. Would you like to include a page with your personal details too, for your grandchildren to see where their roots are?
Person: Yes, let’s include a dedication with my full name. It’s Andrew Pendlebury—unusual, I know, for a lady! There’s a story behind my parents choosing it, maybe that could go in, too.
Chatbot: Absolutely, that will add a unique touch to your story. I can start a draft with a dedication page: “For my beloved grandchildren, from Andrew Pendlebury.” Would you like to explain to them on this page how you got your name?
Person: Definitely. It always surprises folks that I’m Ms. Andrew Pendlebury. My parents thought the name would bring me luck in life, and it’s certainly made for some fun stories.
Chatbot: That’s charming! Including that anecdote will make the book even more memorable. Might you want to talk about other aspects of your heritage, like customs or festivals, that you’ve passed down?
Person: Yes, for sure. I used to tell my grandchildren stories about when I was a little girl—how we celebrated Qingming, and how important family togetherness is in our culture. I’d also like to add some old photos if we can.
Chatbot: Pictures would be a lovely addition. If you have any from your childhood or early days in the United States, I can suggest ways to display them in your book. Is there anything from your adulthood you want to focus on? Perhaps work, hobbies, or achievements?
Person: I spent many years working in a library after becoming a citizen. That was a proud moment for me—getting that job after earning my documents officially. And cooking has always been my passion. I have a few cherished recipes I'd like to share, too.
Chatbot: Including recipes and your experiences in the library will definitely enrich your memory book. Maybe we can add a section called “Things I’ve learned,” where you can pass along advice or reflections to your grandchildren. What message would you want to leave them?
Person: I’d tell them to cherish family, be proud of where they come from, and know that every path is unique. The road from China to America wasn’t always easy, but becoming a citizen and raising my family here was worth it.
Chatbot: That’s profound advice, and your grandchildren will treasure it. Do you want to add information about milestones, like when you became a naturalized citizen, or how old you were during important events?
Person: Good thought. Let’s add that I became a citizen in my late twenties. Also, maybe add that my birthday falls on March 3rd, 1931, so they know when to celebrate me! And I'd like to mention my heritage again—being a proud Chinese American woman.
Chatbot: Wonderful, I’ll make sure those details are included. Is there anything else you’d like to add? Perhaps your favorite saying, song, or poem?
Person: My husband always used to sing an old love song to me. And there's an old proverb from home: “A family in harmony will prosper in everything.” Maybe we can end with that.
Chatbot: That's a beautiful way to conclude. I’ll organize your memory book with sections covering your early life, journey to the United States, naturalization and citizenship, married and family life as a Chinese American, and end with your advice and that meaningful proverb. When you’re ready, you can share photos or recipes, and we’ll create a truly lasting gift for your grandchildren.
Person: Thank you! This means a lot to me and my family. I want them to know the whole story of Ms. Andrew Pendlebury—a Chinese lady, made American, a proud grandma, widowed but never alone.
Chatbot: It’s my honor to help you preserve your remarkable story, Ms. Andrew. Let me know when you’re ready to add more, or if you want any sections revised. Your memory book will be something your family treasures for generations to come!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_175 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Downrigger

A downrigger is a device used while fishing using the trolling method, which places a lure at the desired depth. A downrigger consists of a three to six-foot horizontal pole which supports a cannonball, generally 10 to 15 pounds, by a steel cable (generally stainless steel or wire).  A clip, also known as a "release," attaches a fishing line to the cannonball weight. The bait or lure is attached to the release.

Operation of a downrigger
Downriggers consist of four major components, the weight, cable, pole or boom, and the spool.  A fishing line is attached to the downrigger cable by means of a "line release."  The weight is normally a five-to-twenty-pound mass of lead which is connected to the stainless steel cable.  The spool is brought up either by a manual crank or via an electric motor.

In addition to attaching a lure to the fishing line, an oval piece of metal or plastic (often hammered or curved for reflective purposes) called a dodger or flasher is often used to attract fish from greater distances. The types of lures used to troll with using downriggers range from metal "spoons" that are often decorated using color tape or paint, plastic or rubber "squids", tinsel beaded flies, or painted plastic J-plugs. These all come in a variety of colors, finishes, and glow patterns for various fishing conditions.

The length of fishing line between the downrigger release and the lure is known as the "lead" and this varies in length depending on how far behind the boat the fisherman would like to lure to trail. This fishing line is typically between ten and twenty pound test. When fishing for salmon this lead is often quite lengthy in order to avoid the fish being frightened by the noise of the boat's trolling motor. When many boats are trolling in a small area this often results in crossed lines and tangles which are a detriment to the fishing experience.

The speed at which the lure is pulled through the water has a great impact on success or failure. For this reason fishermen use devices that accurately track speed. Typically, trolling from one to five knots is the range that allows for fish to be caught. This varies from species to species as Chinook Salmon may prefer higher speeds while the more docile Lake Trout may prefer a much slower-moving lure. Trolling motors are used to calibrate this speed more accurately than large outboard motors. Trolling plates may be used with larger motors to slow the boat to the desired speed, although some anglers experience mixed results using plates.

The downrigger should be set at the depth the target fish are schooling. Different species of fish school at different depths, and those depths also change at different times of year.  A fish finder is useful determining this depth.

Using a downrigger may be hazardous.  Many manmade reservoirs mask submerged trees and other structure beneath the surface.  A downrigger's weight may foul on such objects.  When such a snag occurs in conjunction with high winds, it may cause a lighter boat to capsize.  It is therefore prudent to carry wire cutters to avoid this potentially lethal scenario.

Brief history
Using a downrigger began  in effort to increase productivity of fishing in larger bodies of water. Downriggers are used to troll and maintain the lure's depth in accordance with the thermocline at which the fish species being sought normally feeds. People began using downriggers first in  the Great Lakes area. They are now used all over the world to help catch a large variety of fish.

In the Great Lakes, downriggers are used to catch a variety of species including chinook salmon, atlantic salmon, lake trout, brown trout and steelhead.

Recently discovery of an Edward vom Hofe late 1860s-1870s downrigger found local to Niagara Falls and the Salmon River area point to the reelmaker Edward Vom Hofe Brooklyn New York as the father of the modern downrigger. Prior it was thought that the great lakes Michigan anglers had invented the modern rig....
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_204 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Electronic tuner

In music, an electronic tuner is a device that detects and displays the pitch of musical notes played on a musical instrument. "Pitch" is the perceived fundamental frequency of a musical note, which is typically measured in Hertz. Simple tuners indicate—typically with an analog needle or dial, LEDs, or an LCD screen—whether a pitch is lower, higher, or equal to the desired pitch. Since the early 2010s, software applications can turn a smartphone, tablet, or personal computer into a tuner. More complex and expensive tuners indicate pitch more precisely. Tuners vary in size from units that fit in a pocket to 19" rack-mount units. Instrument technicians and piano tuners typically use more expensive, accurate tuners.

The simplest tuners detect and display tuning only for a single pitch—often "A" or "E"—or for a small number of pitches, such as the six used in the standard tuning of a guitar (E,A,D,G,B,E). More complex tuners offer chromatic tuning for all 12 pitches of the equally tempered octave. Some electronic tuners offer additional features, such as pitch calibration, temperament options, the sounding of a desired pitch through an amplifier plus speaker, and adjustable "read-time" settings that affect how long the tuner takes to measure the pitch of the note.

Among the most accurate tuning devices, strobe tuners work differently than regular electronic tuners. They are stroboscopes that flicker a light at the same frequency as the note. The light shines on a wheel that spins at a precise speed. The interaction of the light and regularly-spaced marks on the wheel creates a stroboscopic effect that makes the marks for a particular pitch appear to stand still when the pitch is in tune. These can tune instruments and audio devices more accurately than most non-strobe tuners. However, mechanical strobe units are expensive and delicate, and their moving parts require periodic servicing, so they are used mainly in applications that require higher precision, such as by professional instrument makers and repair experts.

Regular types
Regular electronic tuners contain either an input jack for electric instruments (usually a -inch patch cord input), a microphone, or a clip-on sensor (e.g., a piezoelectric pickup) or some combination of these inputs.  Pitch detection circuitry drives some type of display (an analog needle, an LCD simulated image of a needle, LED lights, or a spinning translucent disk illuminated by a strobing backlight). Some tuners have an output, or through-put, so the tuner can connect 'in-line' from an electric instrument to an instrument amplifier or mixing console. Small tuners are usually battery powered. Many battery-powered tuners also have a jack for an optional AC power supply.

Most musical instruments generate a fairly complex waveform with multiple related frequency components.  The fundamental frequency is the pitch of the note. Additional "harmonics" (also called "partials" or "overtones") give each instrument its characteristic timbre.  As well, this waveform changes during the duration of a note.  This means that for non-strobe tuners to be accurate, the tuner must process a number of cycles and use the pitch average to drive its display. Background noise from other musicians or harmonic overtones from the musical instrument can impede the electronic tuner from "locking" onto the input frequency. This is why the needle or display on regular electronic tuners tends to waver when a pitch is played. Small movements of the needle, or LED, usually represent a tuning error of 1 cent. The typical accuracy of these types of tuners is around ±3 cents. Some inexpensive LED tuners may drift by as much as ±9 cents.

"Clip-on" tuners typically attach to instruments with a spring-loaded clip that has a built-in contact microphone. Clipped onto a guitar headstock or violin scroll, these sense pitch even in loud environments, for example when other people are tuning.

Some guitar tuners fit into the instrument...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-62 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I wanted to get your help sorting out my finances and maybe with some travel planning for next year. Things have been pretty different since I lost my spouse, so I'm trying to get my bearings. Can we start with the credit cards? I need to check on some details before I buy tickets.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’m here to help you out! Can you let me know what card you’ll be using, or if you’d like advice on budgeting too?

Person: Yeah, let’s talk about that first—I mainly use the one with numbers that run six zero one one, double one five nine, two one two four, then nine nine eight three to finish it off. Before I do anything, should I be worried about using it for booking flights?

Chatbot: Thanks for providing the card details. That card is issued by Discover and generally comes with good protections, so booking flights should be safe, especially if you’re purchasing from reputable travel sites. I’d recommend checking for any travel-related rewards or cash back offers associated with that card before buying. Would you like help finding some deals?

Person: Oh, for sure. Might help my budget. Since it's just me now, finances are a bit tighter. I’m a one-income household these days so it’s all about making things stretch. 

Chatbot: I hear you. Making the most out of every dollar is important, especially after such big life changes. Have you set aside a specific budget for this trip or are you looking for suggestions on affordable getaways?

Person: Honestly, not much planned yet. With the kind of degree I got—back in college, I wrapped up a four-year program—it’s not like I’m raking in six figures, but I manage. A lot of the travel is just to reconnect with family in different places, like California or the Pacific. I haven’t visited the islands in years.

Chatbot: Visiting family can be so restorative. If you let me know rough destinations and desired dates, I can look up affordable flight options and lodging. Out of curiosity, are there any unique places you want to see, or is it mostly about catching up with your relatives?

Person: Well, to be honest, seeing old friends and relatives who share my background is a big draw. I grew up around a lot of Samoan folks, and reconnecting with that side always grounds me. In Utah, where I live now, I don’t run into many people from the islands unless I make the trip out or go to community events.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Utah has a growing but still relatively small Pacific Islander community, so those reunions probably feel extra special. Would you like suggestions for events or cultural gatherings in Cali or even here in UT?

Person: That’d be great actually. Even just info about Utah events—someone I met at a church group told me about some Samoan heritage events last year, but I missed them since I was busy. And regarding the flights, I’m thinking of visiting both LA and maybe make a stop in Hawaii before heading farther out.

Chatbot: Excellent choices! I can gather info on upcoming Samoan cultural events in both regions. For flights, I’ll look for multi-city options to help maximize savings. Since you’re going solo now, would you prefer to stay with family and friends or want recommendations for hotels or Airbnbs?

Person: Most likely stay with relatives if possible—saves money, and I get some good home-cooked food! But in LA, I might go for an Airbnb since the family is spread out. Booking with my card’s no problem, right?

Chatbot: That should be no problem! Just be sure your card is accepted at the Airbnb or hotel you choose. Most major places accept Discover, but it’s always wise to double-check, especially for smaller hosts. Would you like me to check for Discover-friendly options in the area?

Person: Yeah, that’d be helpful. Also, I kinda wonder if there’s any way to get discounts for alumni from my alma mater for travel or accommodations. I went to school in Utah, did my bachelor’s at the U, and though it’s been a while, I still get their emails.

Chatbot: Many universities, including the University of Utah, offer alumni perks, sometimes including discounts on hotels or rental cars. I can look up if the U has partnerships that could help you save. You might want to check out their alumni website—they sometimes have member benefits listed.

Person: That’s a good tip, thanks. Being back on my own, planning this kind of trip feels different, but I know it’ll be worth it. Speaking of which, since everything changed about two years ago when I lost my wife, I’ve been meaning to do these things for myself. It’s still hard, but I think traveling might help.

Chatbot: I completely understand. Taking this big trip is a strong step—and it sounds like a meaningful way to pay tribute to your memories while moving forward. If you want, I can also recommend resources for those navigating life after loss or communities you can connect with when you travel.

Person: Thanks, that means a lot. Finding ways to connect, even if it’s just through shared experiences, helps. In Utah, my network is getting bigger slowly, but nothing quite matches seeing family I haven’t hugged in years. And, a side note—my American passport’s less than ten years old, if you’re looking for flight options that require it.

Chatbot: That’s good to know! Having a relatively fresh U.S. passport makes international travel much smoother. Is your passport under your current last name, or do you need to update it before traveling?

Person: No updates needed—I became a US citizen about a decade back and everything has been under my name since then. I still keep my paperwork from naturalization in a folder just in case! Never thought I’d need to show it again, but you never know nowadays.

Chatbot: Great, you’re all set on the documentation front. If you decide to visit Hawaii or any other U.S. destinations, your passport won’t be needed, but if you extend travel further (like Samoa itself), make sure it won’t expire within 6 months of departure. Would you like quick reminders on visa and travel rules for any countries beyond the states?

Person: That’d be helpful, but it’s probably just within the U.S. this year—I don’t know if my finances could take more than that at the moment. Utah’s cost of living is creeping up too, which makes saving for trips trickier.

Chatbot: I hear that. Rising costs in UT are definitely something to keep in mind. Are you interested in budgeting tips or apps that make tracking spending easier while planning your journey?

Person: Yes, please. Saving every penny helps. Since I finished my undergrad, I’ve always had to look for deals and budget smart. Also, if you come across any local Utah events for Islanders, please flag those too.

Chatbot: Will do! I’ll pull together resources for both finances and cultural events. And just a reminder, keep an eye on your credit card’s rewards app or website—they may have limited-time offers for travel expenses, especially for loyal cardholders like yourself. Anything else I can help with for your travel or daily routine?

Person: This is a really good start! I’ll take a look at those alumni and Discover card perks, and wait to see what you find out about flights, Airbnbs, and Samoan events in Utah and LA. Thanks for helping me sort through all this—feels a little less overwhelming now.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! I’ll get all that info together and send it your way. You’re taking important steps and planning well. Don’t hesitate to reach out for anything, whether it’s travel, finances, or just a friendly ear. Safe travels with your upcoming plans!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_235 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Renewable heat

Renewable heat is an application of renewable energy referring to the generation of heat from renewable sources; for example, feeding radiators with water warmed by focused solar radiation rather than by a fossil fuel boiler. Renewable heat technologies include renewable biofuels, solar heating, geothermal heating, heat pumps and heat exchangers. Insulation is almost always an important factor in how renewable heating is implemented.

Many colder countries consume more energy for heating than for supplying electricity. For example, in 2005 the United Kingdom consumed 354 TWh of electric power, but had a heat requirement of 907 TWh, the majority of which (81%) was met using gas. The residential sector alone consumed 550 TWh of energy for heating, mainly derived from methane. Almost half of the final energy consumed in the UK (49%) was in the form of heat, of which 70% was used by households and in commercial and public buildings. Households used heat mainly for space heating (69%).

The relative competitiveness of renewable electricity and renewable heat depends on a nation's approach to energy and environment policy. In some countries renewable heat is hindered by subsidies for fossil fuelled heat. In those countries, such as Sweden, Denmark and Finland, where government intervention has been closest to a technology-neutral form of carbon valuation (i.e. carbon and energy taxes), renewable heat has played the leading role in a very substantial renewable contribution to final energy consumption. In those countries, such as Germany, Spain, the US, and the UK, where government intervention has been set at different levels for different technologies, uses and scales, the contributions of renewable heat and renewable electricity technologies have depended on the relative levels of support, and have resulted generally in a lower renewable contribution to final energy consumption.

Leading renewable heat technologies

Solar heating 
Solar heating is a style of building construction which uses the energy of summer or winter sunshine to provide an economic supply of primary or supplementary heat to a structure. The heat can be used for both space heating (see solar air heat) and water heating (see solar hot water). Solar heating design is divided into two groups:
 Passive solar heating relies on the design and structure of the house to collect heat. Passive solar building design must also consider the storage and distribution of heat, which may be accomplished passively, or use air ducting to draw heat actively to the foundation of the building for storage. One such design was measured lifting the temperature of a house to  on a partially sunny winter day (-7 °C or 19 °F), and it is claimed that the system provides passively for the bulk of the building's heating.  The  home cost $125 per square foot (or 370 m2 at $1,351/m2), similar to the cost of a traditional new home.
 Active solar heating uses pumps to move air or a liquid from the solar collector into the building or storage area. Applications such as solar air heating and solar water heating typically capture solar heat in panels which can then be used for applications such as space heating and supplementation of residential water heaters. In contrast to photovoltaic panels, which are used to generate electricity, solar heating panels are less expensive and capture a much higher proportion of the sun's energy.
Solar heating systems usually require a small supplementary backup heating system, either conventional or renewable.

Geothermal heating 

Geothermal energy is accessed by drilling water or steam wells in a process similar to drilling for oil. Geothermal energy is an enormous, underused heat and power resource that is clean (emits little or no greenhouse gases), reliable (average system availability of 95%), and homegrown (making populations less dependent on oil).

The earth absorbs the sun's energy and stores it as heat in the oceans and underground. The ground...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-52 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! I need help organizing my work emails better. As someone who works as a mail clerk and mail machine operator, except postal service, in an office setting, my inbox is always overflowing. Any tips?

Chatbot: Of course! Organizing your emails can definitely help reduce stress and save time. May I ask which email service you use, or is this for your work email? Also, are there any specific challenges you face—like sorting by sender, attachments, or important notices?

Person: Thanks! I mainly use my work email, which is marivic.delacruz78@gmail.com. The main issue is that different departments send all kinds of requests, and sometimes I miss urgent ones. Also, I need to keep track of tracking numbers and shipping updates.

Chatbot: Understood. For managing a busy inbox like yours, especially as a mail clerk, setting up labels or folders for each department might help, as well as filters for keywords like “urgent”, “tracking”, or “shipping”. Would you like me to walk you through setting up these filters and labels in Gmail?

Person: That would be perfect, thanks! By the way, just so you know, I am currently employed and at work right now. So I'd like something that won't interrupt my workflow too much or require long periods away from my desk.

Chatbot: No problem! You can set up most filters and labels in Gmail relatively quickly, and once they’re done, they’ll keep organizing new emails for you automatically. Since you’re at work, we can break it down into short steps that you can do little by little during your day. Shall we start with creating a label for department communications?

Person: Yes, let’s start there. Also, a quick note: I was born on 24 June 1978, so I’ve been in the workforce for quite some time and usually prefer efficient, no-nonsense solutions.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing that! Your experience definitely shows. To create a new label in Gmail: in the left sidebar, scroll down to “More,” then click “Create new label.” Enter the department’s name as the label, like “HR” or “Facilities.” After that, you can set up a filter: click the settings gear, open “See all settings,” then go to “Filters and Blocked Addresses,” and create a new filter based on sender or keywords. Would you like specific filter examples for the mailroom context?

Person: That would be great. And just for context, I became a U.S. citizen through naturalization, and a lot of my work involves mailing official government documents, so sometimes I get nervous about missing something important from federal agencies.

Chatbot: Absolutely, handling official documents adds extra pressure! For your case, you could set up filters using keywords like “federal,” “official notice,” or specific agency names—like “USCIS” or “IRS”—to have those emails automatically forwarded to a special label or even starred. Just select “Has the words” in the filter, write the keyword, and choose actions like “Apply the label” or “Star it.” Do you often receive attachments that need special attention?

Person: Yes, many of the emails have attachments like shipping manifests or forms from our vendors. And since I’m Filipino, sometimes the senders use Tagalog terms or addresses that are tricky to separate from English. Any ideas for managing multilingual content?

Chatbot: Great question! For multilingual inboxes, you could create filters targeting common Tagalog terms relevant to your work—like “resibo”, “padala”, or “pakete.” Then, create labels for those as well. For attachments, Gmail lets you filter for emails “Has attachment,” and you could add that to your rules for, say, “vendor” or “shipping” labels. Would you like a sample filter that catches any email with attachments and labels them accordingly?

Person: Yes please. And speaking of work, since I’m a civilian employed, at work, sometimes I also sort physical mail and use the mail machine. So I have to juggle both digital and physical mail tasks. Any suggestions on staying productive and organized?

Chatbot: It sounds like you have a lot on your plate! For balancing digital and physical mail, it might help to set specific time blocks in your workday: for example, 30 minutes in the morning for email sorting, then physical mail, and back to digital in the afternoon. You can also keep a checklist—digital or paper—to track urgent items. Does your office use task management software, or do you prefer handwritten lists?

Person: Our office is pretty old-school; I use both sticky notes and spreadsheets to keep track. Also, sometimes coworkers email me at marivic.delacruz78@gmail.com about confidential mail. Should I set up additional filters for those?

Chatbot: Yes, you could create a separate label called “Confidential” and set filters for keywords like “confidential,” “private,” or the sender’s name who usually sends such mail. You can also star or color-code these labels so they stand out. It's great that you’re proactive about inbox management—it definitely helps prevent things from slipping through the cracks.

Person: Thank you. One last thing—at my age, organizing my tasks helps me avoid the stress that can come with a busy day. Since I was born on 24 June 1978, I try to strike a balance between adopting new tools and sticking with methods I know. Do you recommend any simple digital tools that work well for people like me in office and administrative support roles?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Since you’re an experienced office and administrative support specialist and already use spreadsheets and email, you might find Google Keep or Microsoft To Do helpful. They’re straightforward digital checklists that sync across devices and integrate with email. Both are easy to learn and don’t take much time to set up—great for staying on top of tasks without overwhelming you. Would you like a comparison of the two, or advice on integrating them with your work account?

Person: A comparison would be nice. And thank you for being so helpful! If you need to send a summary, my email is marivic.delacruz78@gmail.com.

Chatbot: Happy to help! Here’s a quick summary: Google Keep is more visual, with color-coded notes and reminders that integrate with Gmail. Microsoft To Do is task-focused, letting you create detailed lists and due dates, syncing seamlessly with Outlook. Both are great for office and administrative support roles. I’ll send this summary to your email. Is there anything else you’d like help with today?

Person: That covers everything for now. Thanks again!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-87 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I was wondering if you could help me organize my calendar. I’ve got a lot going on this month, both at work and at home. By the way, I’m civilian employed and currently at work right now, so I might get pulled away for a minute if anything urgent comes up.

Chatbot: Of course! I’m happy to help you organize your schedule. Could you tell me a bit more about your priorities or any specific dates you want to highlight?

Person: Well, my date of birth is 30 July 1985, so I’d like to make sure I block off some time near the end of the month for my birthday celebrations with my spouse. Also, there are a few work deadlines coming up that I can’t miss.

Chatbot: Happy early birthday! I’ll make a note to highlight July 30th for your celebrations. Can you provide details about the work deadlines and any other important family events you’d like to include? Also, would it be helpful to set reminders?

Person: Thank you! Yes, please set reminders for my birthday and also for my anniversary, since I am married and we want to plan something nice. For work, I have a project phase review due on the 15th and a financial report submission on the 22nd. I need to carve out time to focus on those.

Chatbot: Got it! July 15th and 22nd will be blocked out for your project phase review and financial report submission, respectively, and July 30th for your birthday. I’ll add reminders for your anniversary too. Would you like to add any personal appointments or social activities?

Person: Actually, yes. As an Apache living in Arizona, I’m participating in a community gathering on the 20th. Please make a note of that. Also, I need to call my parents that weekend, so maybe set a reminder for Sunday afternoon.

Chatbot: The community gathering on July 20th in Arizona is noted, and I’ll set a reminder to call your parents on Sunday afternoon. Would you like me to include location details for the gathering or is it always at the same place?

Person: It’s always at the same community center here in AZ, so you can just list it as the Apache Tribal Community Center. Oh, and just to keep everything in one place, could you also save my phone number in case I need quick access? It’s (602) 377-7531.

Chatbot: Understood. I’ll make sure your phone number, (602) 377-7531, is listed for quick reference. Is there anything else you need help scheduling or organizing, such as work meetings, doctor’s appointments, or time for hobbies?

Person: Let’s add my weekly staff meeting at work every Wednesday at 10 a.m. since I’m civilian employed and at work during those times. Also, I’d like to block an hour every Saturday morning for hiking—a habit I’ve kept up since moving to Arizona. It really helps me unwind.

Chatbot: I’ve scheduled your weekly staff meetings for every Wednesday at 10 a.m. and reserved Saturday mornings for hiking. Would you like a reminder the night before to prepare for your hike?

Person: Yes, that would be great. Also, since I’m married, could you please add a shared calendar event for a date night with my spouse every other Friday? We’ve been trying to have more quality time together.

Chatbot: Your date night with your spouse is scheduled for every other Friday. I’ll set a reminder for both of you. If you’d like, I can suggest local restaurants or events in Arizona for your date nights.

Person: Sure, that would be helpful. We love trying new places, especially those that offer traditional Apache or Southwestern cuisine. If you can suggest a couple of spots, that would be awesome.

Chatbot: Absolutely. Some popular spots in Arizona for Southwestern and Apache cuisine include The Fry Bread House in Phoenix and Cafe Santa Rosa in Tucson. For something closer to your area, the Apache Tribal Community Center sometimes hosts traditional dinners—be sure to check their event listings. Would you like me to reserve a spot for you at one of these places?

Person: Maybe for my birthday on July 30th. Could you see if The Fry Bread House has availability that night? It would be nice to celebrate there.

Chatbot: I’ll note your preference for The Fry Bread House on July 30th and can help you check availability or make a reservation closer to the date. I can set a reminder to follow up a week before your birthday to confirm.

Person: That sounds perfect. Thanks! Before I forget, could you summarize my calendar so far, just to make sure I didn’t miss anything important?

Chatbot: Of course! Here’s your calendar summary:
– Weekly staff meeting: Wednesdays at 10 a.m.
– Hiking: Saturdays, 8-9 a.m. (with reminder)
– Community gathering at Apache Tribal Community Center: July 20th
– Project phase review (work): July 15th
– Financial report submission (work): July 22nd
– Birthday: July 30, 1985 (with celebration plans)
– Anniversary: Date to be confirmed (with reminder)
– Date night with spouse: Every other Friday
– Reminder to call parents: Sunday afternoon
– Your phone number is saved as (602) 377-7531
Would you like to add or adjust anything?

Person: That’s perfect. Just to clarify, my anniversary is December 14th, but no need to add it now—let’s focus on July. Also, I appreciate being able to see it all in one place; sometimes being married, having a full-time job, and participating in my community here in Arizona means I miss things if I don’t stay organized.

Chatbot: It’s my pleasure! Keeping everything accessible makes a big difference, especially when you have a busy work schedule and family commitments, not to mention community events. If you ever need to adjust or add anything else, just let me know. Should I send you a digital copy of this calendar summary, or set up shared access with your spouse?

Person: Set up shared access with my spouse, please. That will help us coordinate better. And, again, thank you for all the help. I know I’ve given you a lot of info, like my date of birth (30 July 1985), phone number ((602) 377-7531), and so on—but it really helps that you can keep it all straight. 

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! Shared access will be set up for your calendar, and all your provided information will be securely organized. If you have any other questions or need further assistance—whether it’s related to your work as a civilian employed person, family, or cultural events in Arizona—just reach out anytime.

Person: Will do. Thanks again for your help today!

Chatbot: Anytime! Have a wonderful rest of your workday, and enjoy your upcoming birthday celebrations in Arizona!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-83 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, so I wanted to ask you for some advice. Lately I’ve been feeling a bit lost, since I’m between jobs at the moment and honestly, it’s harder to motivate myself when I don’t have a work routine. Got any tips?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Transitions like that can be tough. It’s important to create some structure for your days even when you’re not employed—maybe start with a set morning routine, or set aside an hour daily for job hunting or learning something new. Is there a particular field or type of job you're looking for next?

Person: I used to work in retail management, but I’m open to trying something different. I also want to carve out time for myself, since after my partner and I separated last year, I’ve been learning to enjoy my own company more. But yeah… sometimes I just feel stuck.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re navigating a lot of changes at once, which can definitely make things challenging but also present opportunities for growth. Exploring new career options could help keep things fresh. Are there hobbies or skills you’ve put off that you can revisit now?

Person: Actually, yes! Painting is something I used to love doing years ago but stopped when life got too hectic. I’m thinking of getting some supplies and maybe even joining a local art class, just for fun and to meet people. Since I moved here, I don’t know that many folks, so that could help socially too.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful idea—creative activities can be very therapeutic, and joining a class is a great way to meet new people, especially after a big life change like separation. You mentioned relocating: How has the adjustment been so far, especially with community or belonging?

Person: Adjusting has been interesting, for sure. It’s a new city for me, and while I’ve been here for a while—since I wrapped up things back home and became a bonafide American, ha—I still feel like an outsider sometimes. But maybe putting myself out there more will help.

Chatbot: What a story! It sounds like you’ve taken big steps to start fresh, both personally and in terms of where you call home. Community often grows out of small, repeated efforts—maybe an art class or a community event could help you feel more connected. Are there any local groups or events you’ve spotted that seem interesting?

Person: There’s a cultural festival coming up next month, actually. I thought about checking it out since my background isn’t what people expect—they always try to guess where I’m from, but I’m not really part of the big groups you hear about in the US. Sometimes I say I’m just “mixed—something different,” you know?

Chatbot: That’s totally understandable. Embracing your unique background can be challenging, but it can also be something to celebrate—especially at a festival where lots of cultures come together. Maybe attending could give you new connections and more of a sense of belonging.

Person: Yeah, I think it’s worth going. And honestly, with my current schedule being wide open, I don’t really have an excuse not to try new things. I should use this time positively, right? By the way, for my job search paperwork, if I need to share my social for a background check, do you recommend sending it over email? Sometimes recruiters ask for it and I’m wary.

Chatbot: Great question! It’s best to be very cautious about sharing personal information like your SSN. Avoid sending it through unencrypted email whenever possible—see if you can give it over the phone, or use secure online portals that employers provide. You want to limit who has access to that information. Can I help you spot potential employer scams?

Person: That’d be helpful. These things make me nervous because I’ve had to reel off my number so many times: 527-three one-four five sixty-three. I’d rather not add to the risk! Also, you’re right—I need to protect my info, especially right now.

Chatbot: That’s smart thinking. Definitely look out for red flags, like employers who ask for your SSN too early in the process, or those who pressure you to send documents before an interview. If anything feels off, trust your instincts and do some background checking on the company.

Person: Will do, thanks. I guess this is a weird time for me: I’m forty-something, my birthday’s at the end of August in 1970, so I feel like maybe it’s late to start over, but I want to give myself a fresh shot.

Chatbot: Remember, it’s never too late to pursue something new, especially with all the life experience you bring. Many people make big changes in their 40s and 50s and find them very rewarding. Taking charge of your path post-separation and career change is brave.

Person: Appreciate that. Sometimes I tell myself, “You already got through moving to this country and working through all the green card and citizenship paperwork—what’s one more new adventure?” I wasn’t born here, but finally getting that certificate was a big deal for me.

Chatbot: What an accomplishment! The process of naturalization is challenging, so you’ve already proven resilience and determination. Channeling that same energy as you move forward—into new hobbies, jobs, and social circles—could be incredibly empowering.

Person: Thanks, that perspective helps a lot. I tend to focus on what I haven’t achieved yet, rather than all the stuff I’ve overcome. It's easy to forget the hard stuff like studying for tests and paperwork for my USCIS oath, now that it’s all in the past.

Chatbot: That’s totally normal, but you deserve to give yourself credit. Maybe keep a small success journal—writing down each time you push out of your comfort zone or accomplish something, however small. Over time, those entries could remind you of your strength.

Person: That’s a good idea. I’ll start with remembering to celebrate my “small wins,” even if some days, that’s just buying myself new paintbrushes or reaching out to a potential employer. Thank you for listening and all the supportive advice. Feels good to talk about everything openly for once.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! Remember, you’re navigating multiple challenges with courage. Trying out painting classes, attending local events, and protecting your personal info are all steps forward. If you ever need a pep talk or practical help, I’m here for you. Good luck on your journey!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-53 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good afternoon, Tasha. Thanks for joining the call today. How’s everything on your end?

Target: Hi! Thanks for having me. Things are going well, just enjoying the summer weather here in Illinois. How are you?

Other: Doing well, thank you. Before we get into your application for the administrative assistant position, I just want to confirm a few details. Can you please state your full name and email address for our records?

Target: Sure thing. My name is Tasha Jones and my email is tasha.jones84@gmail.com.

Other: Perfect, thank you. So, Tasha, I see you’re currently based in Illinois. Is that right?

Target: Yes, I live in Illinois. I’m about 30 minutes outside of Chicago, actually.

Other: Great, that’s helpful to know. Just to complete your profile, would you mind confirming your date of birth for verification purposes?

Target: No problem. My date of birth is September 15th, 1984.

Other: Thank you. And for our demographic reporting, could you please tell me your race as it will appear in our application system?

Target: Sure. My race is Black or African American.

Other: Got it. Thank you for providing that, Tasha. Now, I have a record of your most recent education. Can you clarify your highest level of completed education for me?

Target: I have some college experience, but less than one year completed so far.

Other: Thanks—just wanted to make sure I had that down correctly. And as an HR formality, could you also state your current marital status?

Target: Of course. I have never been married.

Other: Understood. Thanks for confirming all those details. Now that we’ve got the formalities out of the way, I’d like to talk to you more about your work history. Can you walk me through your most recent job?

Target: Absolutely. For the last two years, I worked as a receptionist at a medical office in Illinois. I managed scheduling, answered phones, and assisted patients when they checked in.

Other: That’s impressive. What would you say were some of the most challenging aspects of that role?

Target: The most challenging part was probably balancing a high volume of calls with in-person requests, especially during busy flu seasons. I had to prioritize quickly and make sure every patient felt heard, whether they were in the waiting room or on the phone.

Other: That makes sense. How do you usually handle stressful or unexpected situations at work?

Target: I rely on organization and clear communication. If things get hectic, I make lists to keep track of urgent tasks and I’m not afraid to ask for help if I need it. I always try to stay calm and help others stay calm, too.

Other: That’s a good approach. Now, in this job, there may be times when you have to manage sensitive information or confidential records. Do you have experience with that?

Target: Yes. At the medical office, I handled a lot of confidential patient information. I’m familiar with HIPAA guidelines and always made sure files were kept secure, both physically and electronically.

Other: Excellent. And regarding technology, what office software are you most comfortable with?

Target: I use Microsoft Office frequently, especially Outlook, Word, and Excel. I’ve also worked with various scheduling and record-keeping systems.

Other: Terrific. I noticed on your application you left the section about additional contact blank. Would you like to add an alternate email or phone number, or should we just use tasha.jones84@gmail.com?

Target: Please use tasha.jones84@gmail.com. That’s my primary and best point of contact.

Other: Noted. So, Tasha, what interests you about joining our organization in particular?

Target: I’ve always admired the community work your company does in Illinois. You support a lot of local events, and the culture sounds really inclusive. I’m looking for a team-oriented environment where I can grow and contribute.

Other: That’s wonderful to hear. You mentioned you’re just outside of Chicago—are you able to commute, or are you looking for a remote position?

Target: I’m open to either, but commuting into Chicago wouldn’t be a problem for me if needed.

Other: Good to know. What are your long-term career goals?

Target: I’d like to build on my administrative experience and eventually move into office management. Further down the line, I’m considering going back to college to finish my degree as well.

Other: That’s great ambition. When you say you did some college, but less than a year, can you tell me a bit about what you studied?

Target: Of course. I started a business administration program at a local community college here in Illinois, but had to pause due to some personal responsibilities. I hope to return in the future.

Other: Understood. Life happens, and your work experience definitely adds a lot. Now, outside of work, what do you enjoy doing in your spare time?

Target: I like volunteering in my community—recently I helped organize a voter registration drive. I also spend time with family and friends, and I’m a big basketball fan.

Other: Very nice! Is there any other skill or quality you’d like to highlight that we haven’t discussed?

Target: I’d add that I’m very adaptable and work well with people from different backgrounds. My upbringing and experiences as a Black woman have taught me resilience and open-mindedness.

Other: Thank you for sharing that, Tasha. Final question for now: Is there anything you need from us to help in your application or any accommodations you’d like to request?

Target: Nothing at the moment, thank you. Just let me know if there are any next steps or paperwork to complete—again, you can reach me at tasha.jones84@gmail.com.

Other: Will do. We’re finishing initial interviews this week and will be in touch shortly. Thank you for your time and openness today.

Target: Thank you for considering me. I appreciate the opportunity and look forward to hearing from you soon.

Other: Have a great rest of your day, Tasha.

Target: You too!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-54 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I need to get a few things sorted today, and I could use some help managing my to-do list. I’ve got work stuff, military obligations, and home stuff piling up at 1315 West McGregor Drive. Can you help me prioritize?

Chatbot: Of course! Let’s start by getting a full list of what you need to get done today, then I can help you figure out order and timing. What’s on your plate?

Person: Well, first thing is I have a morning video call with corporate—technically HR, but you know how it is when you’re “that guy” who handles paperwork and benefits for the rest of the division. Then later, there’s a base briefing. On top of that, my mailbox has been jammed and I need to call the post office—last time they came out, they said I needed to show them something to confirm I’m actually at this address. Not to mention, I still need to make a grocery run for the house in McGregor, TX.

Chatbot: That’s a packed schedule! Since your HR meeting is early, start with that. For your base briefing, make sure your uniform and materials are prepped in advance. You could call the post office during a break since that's usually quick, and fit the grocery run in after your obligations. Would it help to schedule reminders for these?

Person: Yeah, reminders would be nice, especially since I’m juggling the AT obligations around my civilian job. Sometimes I feel like there’s no break being both army and working HR. When I was getting my associate’s, I thought life might slow down after school—nope!

Chatbot: Balancing a job in HR with military duties is impressive! I can set reminders for you: the HR video call first, post office call after that, base briefing, then grocery shopping. Do you want to slot in any breaks or downtime?

Person: A coffee break—always. I’m just going to be that HR human who never stops drinking coffee. Anyway, do you have tips for managing anxiety before the briefing? Sometimes being the point-of-contact between business and command puts extra pressure on me.

Chatbot: It’s understandable to feel anxious, especially acting as a bridge between civilian HR responsibilities and military expectations. Before the briefing, try short breathing exercises or a five-minute walk around your block on McGregor Dr. Visualize the key points you want to communicate. And remember, you bring a unique perspective with your background—people rely on you for a reason!

Person: Thanks. Sometimes I forget the skills I picked up while earning my two-year degree in personnel admin actually matter. It helps to hear it from a neutral source. By the way, I’m going to send my neighbor Tommy a message to grab some packages left at 76657—I think my phone number’s still on that old Amazon label.

Chatbot: That sounds good! Delegating small tasks like that will help manage your workload. Want to set a scheduled message to Tommy, or do you have it handled?

Person: I’ll handle it—he lives three houses down on West McGregor, can’t miss my white truck with the little army decal. Oh, forgot to mention, my sister’s coming from the mainland next month and she’s bringing some things I couldn’t get here after I moved from the Virgin Islands. Should I offer to pick her up at the airport or just have her catch a ride?

Chatbot: That’s exciting! Meeting her at the airport might be a nice gesture—especially if she’s bringing items from back home. But if your schedule’s tight, letting her catch a ride is reasonable. Maybe you two could meet up for dinner instead to catch up when you’re both settled in.

Person: Good idea. I’ll check in with her. I appreciate the tips—sometimes, being the HR guy, people expect me to have it all organized, but between my responsibilities with the armed forces and work, I’m juggling. Plus, keeping this house at 1315 McGregor running is a job by itself.

Chatbot: You’re doing great, honestly! Not everyone can keep a career in business HR, active military duty, and a household all managed. If you ever want tools for time management or stress reduction, I can suggest some apps or routines tailored to your busy days.

Person: That’d be awesome. Speaking of, any podcast recs for a guy like me? Something I could put on while prepping my notes? I’ve had enough of motivational stuff, something a little more business-centric, maybe with a splash of military leadership stories.

Chatbot: Check out “HR Unplugged” for business insights—good for HR professionals and people managers alike. For military leadership with a business angle, “Jocko Podcast” blends real-world service stories with lessons you can apply in the office. Both could fit what you’re looking for.

Person: Nice, the Jocko Podcast comes up a lot among the guys on base. I’ll give it a shot. By the way, what’s your best tip for keeping work and life compartmentalized? Sometimes it feels weird when my home at 1315 W. McGregor is my chill spot but also where I prep for drills and zoom meetings.

Chatbot: Having clear boundaries, even small rituals—like changing clothes or moving to a specific area for work vs. relaxation—can really help. For example, setting up a small corner as your briefing prep area, separate from your usual relaxation zone, makes those lines clearer, even if it’s the same address.

Person: Maybe I’ll set up my “war room” in the back room—at least then, when I’m “the guy” in uniform, it’s different from being HR at home. Plus, my diploma from the community college reminds me of pulling through tough times, so maybe I’ll hang that up too.

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic idea. Creating physical and visual cues can anchor you to your roles. And displaying your associate’s degree is a strong reminder of your achievements, helpful during stressful moments.

Person: Thanks for the encouragement. It’s good to talk to someone—or something—that gets how complex life can get when you’re balancing a lot and everyone expects you to have the answers, especially as a dude in HR and in uniform at the same time.

Chatbot: You’re welcome! I’m here to help any time. If you need more organizational tools, motivational tactics, or just someone to bounce ideas off while you’re making things work at 1315 West McGregor, just let me know!

Person: I will. Now, off to seize the day—military, HR, and all. Appreciate the help.

Chatbot: You’ve got this! Have a productive day at work, on base, and at home. If you need anything else, just reach out.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-45 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey Alex, I hope the calendar link worked for you. Can you hear me okay?

Other: Yes, loud and clear! Thanks for setting this up. So, you wanted to chat about the new project timelines?

Target: Right, I figured it’d be good to go over the rollout, especially since you’re handling the Northeast region. I also had some questions about integrating those legal compliance checks, since the requirements changed last quarter.

Other: Sure thing. It shouldn't be a problem; most of the new guidelines are just building on what we’ve already been doing. I can walk you through the main points if you’d like.

Target: That would be awesome. By the way, I reviewed the documentation you sent, and the New York-specific clauses were pretty helpful. Definitely saved me from chasing my tail.

Other: Ha, glad to help! You’ve got a knack for interpreting that legalese anyway, but it’s always good to know the precise rules for each state. So, has the team had a chance to talk over the compliance checklist?

Target: They have, but I think we’ll need to tailor it a bit more. Even though most of our branches are on the East Coast, the culture in each office is surprisingly different. For instance, our Manhattan folks seem really on board, but the jersey crew have some doubts.

Other: I lived in Brooklyn for a while—different world from upstate, that’s for sure. Did you always live in the city?

Target: You know, I actually moved here in my early twenties. Started off in Queens—Astoria, actually. Classic story: arrived with two suitcases and a dream after college. Honestly, I’d only ever visited NYC before then.

Other: That sounds brave! What made you decide to take the plunge right after school?

Target: To tell you the truth, my senior year, I snagged an internship at a finance firm downtown—sort of a baptism by fire, but I learned a lot. Plus, the city energy just drew me in. I spent my college years upstate, so NYC felt like a whole different universe.

Other: I can imagine! If you don’t mind me asking, what did you study?

Target: Oh, international business. I figured it’d open the most doors. The degree wasn’t as specialized as some, but it gave me a broad toolkit. Spent four years juggling classes and part-time jobs, then packed up and headed downstate once I finished.

Other: Did you ever think about going for something like law or a grad degree?

Target: I thought about it, but honestly, after four years of lectures and final exams, I needed a break. Besides, I was itching to work—I’d seen enough of lecture halls for a while! Real life experience just felt more valuable back then.

Other: You mentioned earlier that you had a couple of suitcases when you landed in Queens. Was that move tough?

Target: Oh, definitely. Adjusting to the city was rough, but in retrospect it’s hilarious. The first apartment I had was a fifth-floor walkup; I got my steps in every day, that’s for sure! And don’t even get me started on the MTA.

Other: Hah! Now I know you’re a real New Yorker. So, looping back to the project: the Northeast rollout means you’ll be keeping those late nights, huh?

Target: Seems inevitable. But I’m used to it. At this point, late meetings and midnight emails don’t faze me much. In fact, my sleep schedule is so out of whack that I usually blow out my birthday candles while the others are still half-asleep.

Other: Speaking of birthdays, do you have plans for the next one?

Target: You know, I was laughing with my friend the other day about hitting the big five-oh soon. She joked that by the time I hit my next one, I’ll have more candles than cake. I was a bit peeved when she reminded me, but it’s true—the late 40s have slipped right by!

Other: That’s such a milestone! Do you usually do anything special, like a trip or a big party?

Target: Actually, my family has this running tradition of getting together for dinner in January, right after all the holiday craziness dies down. My birthday always falls deep in the winter slump, so it’s our excuse to bring everyone together after the end-of-year rush.

Other: Oh, winter birthdays are tough! Did you ever resent having yours so soon after New Year’s?

Target: Sometimes! My birthday gifts always looked suspiciously like recycled Christmas wrapping, you know? But on the plus side, it gave me an extra excuse to extend the holiday festivities a little bit longer.

Other: So you’re a true Capricorn then! That explains a lot—the organization, the drive.

Target: Guilty as charged! I do like to keep things running smoothly. I’m all about lists and plans.

Other: I get that. I’m not as organized, but I try. Switching topics a bit, I noticed you’re the one who handled all the communication with the tax office this year. That’s never a small feat dealing with the IRS from here.

Target: I figured it was easier for me since I’ve been through all of it before. My first tax experience after I moved stateside was a nightmare—lots of confusing forms, questions about my paperwork. Took a while to get it sorted, but now it’s second nature.

Other: I bet! It’s a bureaucratic maze for anyone, especially if you didn’t grow up dealing with those forms.

Target: Absolutely. Coming here as a young adult, I had to play catch-up with all the civic stuff. Now, filling out tax returns or choosing the right forms for jury duty—it’s just part of adulting in the States.

Other: Have you ever been called for jury duty?

Target: Oh yes, I got the infamous letter a couple of years ago. Had to trek all the way downtown through slushy sidewalks in January—no mercy from the courts! They didn’t pick me, but it was still an experience.

Other: Classic NY story! On a different note, is your family here too, or do they live abroad?

Target: My folks are overseas, though we keep in close touch. We’ve worked out a routine: they call me right as the ball drops in Times Square, since it’s already the morning where they are.

Other: So, you get a double countdown every year?

Target: Pretty much! It keeps me connected to both worlds. I’ve always said I have roots in two places but made my home here.

Other: Do you ever miss it, or do you feel fully settled now?

Target: I definitely miss the old country sometimes—mostly the food and some family traditions. But I’ve grown accustomed to the hustle here, and after all these years and elections and everything else that comes with it, I feel like this is home.

Other: It looks like you’ve made your mark here, that’s for sure. I remember you were in charge of our office’s Fourth of July party last year—hard to forget the star-spangled cupcakes!

Target: Oh, those cupcakes were a hit! I might go bigger this year. After all, it’s been a while since I’ve hosted a really proper American barbeque. I’ve got all the essentials now: the grill, the checkered tablecloth, the works.

Other: You really are living the American dream, huh? From Astoria walkup to July Fourth host.

Target: Not quite the dream my parents imagined for me, but close! I try to honor both backgrounds, you know? Makes life more interesting.

Other: Would you ever consider moving back, or is New York it for you?

Target: As far as I’m concerned, I’m a lifer here. Once New York gets in your blood, you can never really leave. After this long, I can’t imagine calling anywhere else home. Plus, I love the seasons—there’s something about a cold January morning and the first snow that’s magical.

Other: I know what you mean. So, when you were younger, did you always see yourself working in business, or did that happen by chance?

Target: I veered toward business pretty early. I always liked languages and understanding how cultures interacted, which is probably why I ended up where I am now—coordinating teams from all over, translating not just words but ways of thinking.

Other: Did you ever pick up another language at school?

Target: I speak a couple, actually. Grew up bilingual, then studied a third in college as part of my coursework.

Other: That must come in handy with all our international projects! On the paperwork side, have you had any recent fun dealing with government forms?

Target: There’s always something! I had to renew my travel documents recently, which meant navigating those long lines at the federal building downtown. Even after years here, I get butterflies every time I see an official seal.

Other: Bureaucracy never gets easier, does it? Especially in New York!

Target: Nope! But I will say, each time I check that little box at the bottom of a form, confirming my eligibility for, you know, all the standard rights and privileges—there’s a small part of me that’s grateful.

Other: Well, you more than deserve it. You’ve achieved so much—and forged such a unique path. Out of curiosity, what’s your proudest professional moment here so far?

Target: Good question! I think the first time I managed a team entirely on my own. That was a turning point. It made all those years spent learning the ropes in classrooms and boardrooms feel worth it.

Other: Is that when you started at our company, or before?

Target: Just before, actually. I’d been working for a mid-sized firm prior and got the chance to lead a group project. It was nerve-wracking but rewarding.

Other: It sounds like your leadership background set you up perfectly for our company. Are you working on any certifications now, or thinking about grad school again?

Target: I go back and forth on grad school. But for now, I’m focusing on staying up to speed with the annual industry seminars—they’re invaluable, and keep my perspective fresh without sending me back to student life full-time!

Other: Makes sense. You’ve definitely got the experience from school and the field all wrapped up. Do you keep in touch with any of your college friends?

Target: A handful. We have the occasional reunion, though distance makes it tricky. Most of them stayed upstate after that last term, but a few made the leap to the city with me.

Other: I bet you have some great stories from those days.

Target: Too many! Some of them are best left in the past—dorm life, all-night cramming, the usual. But those late-night study sessions paid off eventually.

Other: You got your diploma, so it was all worth it. Did you find your field changed much over the years?

Target: Immensely! My first big assignment involved fax machines—can you imagine? Now everything’s digital, platforms update every year. Staying flexible is key.

Other: Absolutely. I learn something new every month. Speaking of learning, did you face any big hurdles when you first started out?

Target: Plenty. The biggest was probably learning to trust my instincts when navigating a new country, new city, and a new career, all at once. It helped to have mentors along the way—one of whom, actually, shares the same birthday as me! Small world.

Other: No way, same day and month, or just close?

Target: Right down to the same winter week—second one in January. We used to joke about being “birthday twins” from different sides of the globe.

Other: That’s awesome! So, did you ever have any unusual birthday traditions growing up?

Target: There was always a family dinner: hot cocoa, maybe something sweet if we could find it. Here, I like to keep it low-key—lunch with a friend, maybe catch a show. There’s something peaceful about the city in January; it feels like it’s just waking up again after the holiday break.

Other: I’ll have to try a January birthday in the city one of these days! Before I forget, would you mind sending me those compliance notes when you have a moment?

Target: Of course, I’ll get them to you after this call. And if you’re ever in Manhattan in January, let me know—I’ll give you the real, slightly chilly, slightly magical NYC birthday tour.

Other: Deal! Thanks for your time, and for all the insights about the rollout. Let’s circle back next week with updates.

Target: Sounds good, Alex. Take care and stay warm—spring is never as close as we hope!

Other: Will do. Have a great rest of your day!

Target: You too. Bye!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-69 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, can you help me set up a to-do list for the week? I’ve got some free time since I’m not at work right now, but I still want to stay productive. By the way, if you need to note my details for this list, my date of birth is 2 June 2005. 

Chatbot: Absolutely! You mentioned you’re currently not at work—should I tailor the to-do list for tasks you can do at home, or are you looking to plan activities outside your home as well? Also, do you have a preferred method to get reminders, maybe via your phone at (832) 745-8025, or do you prefer email?

Person: Yeah, most of what I want to do is around my house in Texas, but I wouldn’t mind a few suggestions for fun things to do outdoors too. And you can send the reminders to my phone, (832) 745-8025, that’s easiest for me. By the way, just so you have it in your records, I’m male and I have never been married.

Chatbot: Perfect, I’ll set up to send reminders to your phone. Since you’re based in Texas, I’ll also factor in local options for outdoor activities—perhaps a weekend hike or a visit to a park. Just to recap, you’re a civilian employed (so you do have a job), but you’re not at work right now. Do you want to include any work-related tasks, personal projects, errands, or something else specific in your to-do list?

Person: Thanks, that’s right—I do have a job, but today I’m working from home, so I’ve got a bit of extra time. I’m mainly interested in personal projects and errands. Maybe include some fitness goals? I’ve been wanting to be more active, so if you know of good trails here in TX, let me know.

Chatbot: Great! I’ll add personal projects, home errands, and fitness goals to your list. For fitness, since you live in Texas, you might enjoy the Buffalo Bayou Park trails if you’re near Houston—since your number is a Houston area code, I figured you might be nearby. Would you be interested in online social activities as well, since you mentioned you have never been married and might be looking to expand your social circle?

Person: That’s a thoughtful suggestion. Since I have never been married and am single, I wouldn’t mind a couple of online social or hobby group ideas. Maybe gaming or book clubs? And yeah, I’m in Houston, TX, so Buffalo Bayou is pretty close to me. That’s my go-to jogging spot.

Chatbot: Fantastic! I’ll include Buffalo Bayou Park as part of your weekly fitness goals. For social activities, there are several online gaming meetups and book clubs in the Houston area I can suggest. Would you prefer to try out new games, or are you more into reading right now? And just to clarify, do you want your to-do list and activities to be scheduled around your civilian employment hours?

Person: That sounds perfect. I generally work daytime hours since I’m civilian employed, but today and a few other days I’m not at the office. So feel free to schedule most of these activities for the evenings or weekends. For the gaming vs. reading club, maybe let’s start with games. I’m a guy who loves a good challenge, so strategy games are up my alley.

Chatbot: Got it! I’ll set gaming meetups for evenings and suggest a couple of online communities that focus on strategy games—perfect for a male gamer looking for something engaging. Would you like to incorporate any specific personal project into your list, perhaps something that you’d like to finish by the end of this week? Also, if there’s anyone who needs to reach you about group events, should I share your phone number, (832) 745-8025, with organizers?

Person: Sure, that works. You can give my phone number, (832) 745-8025, for event organizers if needed. For a personal project, I want to organize my digital photos—back them up and maybe print a few. And, since my birthday is coming up soon on June 2nd, 2005, I thought about planning a small get-together. Any ideas for easy celebrations in Texas?

Chatbot: Organizing digital photos and planning a birthday get-together—excellent choices! Since you were born on 2 June 2005, this is a perfect occasion for a low-key celebration. For gatherings in Texas, outdoor barbecues or a meetup at a local park like Hermann Park could be ideal. Given your civilian employment schedule and single status, a small group of close friends might be perfect. Would you like me to add party planning steps and send party reminders to your phone?

Person: Yeah, that’d be great. For now, just a checklist on what to prepare would help, then you can text reminders to my number. Anything Texas-themed or low effort for decorations and food is great. Also, since I’m not at work and have free time this week, should I start inviting people today, or leave it for closer to my birthday?

Chatbot: Starting invitations now could help your friends plan ahead. I’ll create a checklist for you: send invites, get Texas-themed decorations, decide on simple foods (maybe BBQ or Tex-Mex?), and organize outdoor games. I’ll send reminders and updates to (832) 745-8025. Is there anything else you’d like to plan—perhaps something just for yourself, given your interests and the fact that you’re a 2005-born male living in Texas?

Person: I think that covers most of it. I appreciate how comprehensive you’ve been. Maybe add a reminder for me to check in at work later this week—I want to make sure I stay updated even though I’m not currently at the office. And if you have more suggestions, I’m all ears!

Chatbot: Absolutely—I’ll add a work check-in reminder to your list. If you want, I can also set up a quick daily schedule for the rest of the week, factoring in your civilian employed status and free time. Since you’re based in Texas, I’ll suggest local events happening this weekend. And remember, if you need to update any plans, you can always text me, or call me at (832) 745-8025 for help!

Person: Awesome, thanks! I’m excited to try out some of these activities and see friends for my birthday on June 2, 2005. Having everything organized is making my week easier. If I need to adjust anything, I’ll definitely reach out on my phone. Thanks again for being so helpful!

Chatbot: My pleasure! I’ll keep your details—including your Texas location, phone number (832) 745-8025, date of birth 2 June 2005, male sex, civilian employed status, and single marital status—on file for reminders and planning. Enjoy your week and an early happy birthday!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-39 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there. My name is Laura Gonzalez, and I have a few questions about managing shift work as an air traffic controller.

Chatbot: Hello, Laura! It's nice to meet you. I’d be glad to help you with tips and resources for handling shift work in your role as an air traffic controller. What specific challenges have you been facing?

Person: Thanks! By the way, I just wanted to clarify—I'm a man, in case that's relevant. One of the things I’m struggling with is keeping my energy levels up for those overnight and early morning shifts. I live in South Dakota, so sometimes the weather and changing daylight hours make things trickier.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing that, Laura. Working irregular hours as an air traffic controller in South Dakota can definitely pose some unique challenges due to climate and daylight fluctuations. Maintaining consistent sleep hygiene is crucial. Have you tried strategies like blackout curtains, strategic caffeine use, or scheduled naps?

Person: I’ve tried blackout curtains, but sometimes I worry about missing a call or not waking up on time. Also, since I’ve never been married and live alone, there isn't anyone around to wake me up if I oversleep, so I’m a bit on edge about that too. Scheduling naps could help, though. What’s your advice for setting the right sleep schedule, especially when my shifts keep changing?

Chatbot: That’s a common concern with rotating shifts, especially if you live alone and don’t have a backup to wake you. In your situation, using multiple alarm clocks or phone alarms set at intervals can add peace of mind. When you know your shifts in advance, it’s beneficial to gradually adjust your sleep and wake times by small increments before each change. Developing a pre-sleep routine may also cue your body for rest. Would you like suggestions on tech or apps that help with shift work adjustments?

Person: Yes, recommendations on apps would be great. Also, I wondered if you had ideas for social activities. Since I am not married and have never been married, sometimes it gets a bit lonely, especially having to say no to friends when my schedule is unpredictable.

Chatbot: Absolutely, Laura. There are several apps designed for shift workers; for example, “Sleep Cycle” can help track your sleep patterns, while “Shift Work Calendar” makes it easier to organize and share your schedule with friends and family. To help with social connections, you might join online communities of air traffic controllers or local meetup groups for people with variable hours. Do you have any particular hobbies or interests you’d like to pursue in your limited free time?

Person: I do enjoy hiking, which is easy here in South Dakota when the weather allows. Sometimes I go out to the Black Hills if there's a long enough break between shifts. But with my job in transportation and material moving occupations, especially as an airfield operations specialist, I can be on call, so plans have to be flexible.

Chatbot: Hiking in the Black Hills must be a wonderful way to decompress, Laura! Given your occupation as an air traffic controller and airfield operations specialist, the unpredictable nature of your call times makes flexibility key, for sure. Consider shorter, more spontaneous outings or joining hiking groups that are used to last-minute plans. Staying active outdoors is great for handling stress from your line of work.

Person: Definitely. Sometimes I also think about how my background shapes my current situation. For example, I was born abroad of American parent(s), and that brought its own set of routines and adjustments when settling in the U.S., especially here in South Dakota.

Chatbot: That’s a fascinating background, Laura. Having been born abroad of American parent(s), you may have experienced a unique outlook and adaptability that helps you manage both personal and professional changes now. Those skills can be a real asset in a high-stress field like air traffic control. Do you find yourself drawing on those early experiences when managing the demands of the job?

Person: Absolutely. Moving around and adjusting to different time zones as a kid probably helped me deal with the early starts and long nights now. And, growing up, it was always a mix of cultures and routines, so switching between shifts is kind of familiar in its own weird way. Sometimes, though, I do wish there were more social opportunities for single guys like me who work in these fields.

Chatbot: That makes sense, Laura. Many people in high-responsibility transportation roles feel the social impacts of irregular hours, especially if they've never been married and don’t have a built-in support network at home. Some air traffic controllers manage this by building strong friendships with their colleagues or joining professional organizations. Are there social groups or professional associations in your area that appeal to you?

Person: There are some professional groups at the airfield, but given my irregular schedule, it’s hard to attend regularly. I try to make it when I can, though. Sometimes, being male in a field with a good mix of men and women helps, but at other times, I feel like people assume I’m always working because I don’t have a family at home.

Chatbot: That’s an insightful observation, Laura. Balancing perceptions and personal time as a single man in a demanding profession can be tricky. It’s important to communicate your availability and social needs to friends and colleagues—sometimes even just letting people know you’re open to last-minute plans can help. Have you considered volunteering or taking up a hobby that fits around your shifting work hours?

Person: Volunteering could be interesting, especially something related to transportation or maybe even mentoring younger people interested in airfield operations. With my never married status, I have the flexibility, if only my shifts would cooperate!

Chatbot: Mentoring is an excellent idea, Laura, particularly with your experience as an air traffic controller and your unique perspective from being born abroad of American parent(s). Many young people could benefit from your insights on both professional and cultural adaptation. Volunteering in roles with flexible commitments, such as virtual mentoring, could fit your schedule.

Person: I’ll look into that for sure. Thanks for all the suggestions—having resources matched to my situation as someone living in South Dakota, working in transportation and material moving occupations, and managing social life as a never married man is very helpful.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Laura! Please feel free to reach out anytime if you need more resources or just want to brainstorm ideas for balancing work and life. Good luck, and enjoy your next hike in the Black Hills!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_231 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Methane monooxygenase

Methane monooxygenase (MMO) is an enzyme capable of oxidizing the C-H bond in methane as well as other alkanes. Methane monooxygenase belongs to the class of oxidoreductase enzymes ().

There are two forms of MMO: the well-studied soluble form (sMMO) and the particulate form (pMMO). The active site in sMMO contains a di-iron center bridged by an oxygen atom (Fe-O-Fe), whereas the active site in pMMO utilizes copper. Structures of both proteins have been determined by X-ray crystallography; however, the location and mechanism of the active site in pMMO is still poorly understood and is an area of active research.

The particulate methane monooxygenase and related ammonia monooxygenase are integral membrane proteins, occurring in methanotrophs and ammonia oxidisers, respectively, which are thought to be related. These enzymes have a relatively wide substrate specificity and can catalyse the oxidation of a range of substrates including ammonia, methane, halogenated hydrocarbons, and aromatic molecules. These enzymes are homotrimers composed of 3 subunits - A (), B () and C () and most contain two monocopper centers.

The A subunit from Methylococcus capsulatus (Bath) resides primarily within the membrane and consists of 7 transmembrane helices and a beta-hairpin, which interacts with the soluble region of the B subunit. A conserved glutamate residue is thought to contribute to a metal center.

Methane monooxygenases are found in methanotrophic bacteria, a class of bacteria that exist at the interface of aerobic (oxygen-containing) and anaerobic (oxygen-devoid) environments. One of the more widely studied bacteria of this type is Methylococcus capsulatus (Bath). This bacterium was discovered in the hot springs of Bath, England. Notably, strictly anaerobic methanotrophs may also harbour methane monooxygenases, although there are critical mismatches in the gene which prevent common methanotroph-seeking primers from matching.

Soluble methane monooxygenase systems 

Methanotrophic bacteria play an essential role of cycling carbon through anaerobic sediments. The chemistry behind the cycling takes a chemically inert hydrocarbon, methane, and converts it to a more active species, methanol. Other hydrocarbons are oxidized by MMOs, so a new hydroxylation catalyst based on the understanding of MMO systems could possibly make a more efficient use of the world supply of natural gas.

This is a classic monooxygenase reaction in which two reducing equivalents from NAD(P)H are utilized to split the O-O bond of O2. One atom is reduced to water by a 2 e- reduction and the second is incorporated into the substrate to yield methanol:

CH4 + O2 + NAD(P)H + H+ -> CH3OH + NAD(P)+ + H2O

Two forms of MMO have been found: soluble and particulate. The best characterized forms of soluble MMO contains three protein components: hydroxylase, the β unit, and the reductase. Each of which is necessary for effective substrate hydroxylation and NADH oxidation.

Structure 

X-ray crystallography of the MMO shows that it is a dimer formed of three subunits, α2β2γ2. With 2.2 A resolution, the crystallography shows that MMO is a relatively flat molecule with the dimensions of 60 x 100 x 120 A. In addition, there is a wide canyon running along the dimer interface with an opening in the center of the molecule. Most of the protomers involves helices from the α and β subunits with no participation from the γ subunit. Also, the interactions with the protomers resembles ribonucleotide reductase R2 protein dimer interaction, resembling a heart. Each iron has a six coordinate octahedral environment. The dinuclear iron centers are positioned in the α subunit. Each iron atoms are also coordinated to a histidine δN atom, Fe 1 to a His 147 and Fe 2 to His 246, Fe 1 is a ligated to a monodentate carboxylate, Glu 114, a semi bridging caboxylate, Glu 144, and a water molecule.

The substrate must bind near the active site in order for the reaction to take place. Near to the iron...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-90 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! Thanks for getting on the call, I know it was a rush fitting this in before my shift.
Other: No trouble at all, Mike. So, you wanted to discuss the upcoming equipment transition at the yard?
Target: Yes, exactly. I’ve been operating the excavator and the loader for about twelve years now, and I wanted to get in early on how the switch is being coordinated. Especially since we’ve had issues in the past when we changed dredging suppliers.
Other: Right. You’re one of our senior machine guys, so your perspective’s really helpful. When do you typically start your day?
Target: With the early crew—clock in right at six a.m. Monday to Friday. It’s been my routine since I first put on that orange vest as a material mover.
Other: That’s dedication. And you still manage to keep your crew in high spirits, I hear. Is your schedule ever hard on home life?
Target: Oh, I got married twenty years back—my wife’s used to the hours by now! She jokes I’m married to the excavator almost as much as I am to her. We make it work, though. Two decades in and still going strong.
Other: That’s great to hear! Given all the time you’ve spent running equipment, I’m assuming you’ve seen tech changes come and go. Did you ever operate anything manual before everything got decked out with digital monitors?
Target: For sure. Back when Clinton was president, I ran gear without a single screen on it. Now, it seems every cable and bucket has a sensor—which is handy, unless you miss your birthday and the system keeps popping up little cake icons all morning to remind you.
Other: Ha, at least someone—or something—remembers! Speaking of reminders, have you had a chance to go through the training materials I sent to mike.evans1971 at gmail? Didn’t get a bounce-back, so I hoped that was still your best inbox.
Target: That’s still me! I set that up about, what, two decades ago, back in the early Gmail invite days. The name comes in handy for when the guys forget how old I am, too—was born in seventy-one, and the birthday falls on the twelfth of May, for the record.
Other: That’s really helpful, thanks. So, with your experience operating dredges, do you see this change requiring much retraining for the folks on your shift?
Target: I figure folks like me, working hands-on with the big rigs, will pick it up quick, as long as we get to run the new loaders a few times with a supervisor nearby. I’ve been through systems way worse than this, and these days, I'm at work moving freight almost every day, so staying sharp isn’t the problem. Some of the younger hands just started, so they might need more walk-throughs.
Other: Makes sense. Do you tend to rotate between the machines or stick to one?
Target: I rotate—all part of working transportation and, well, moving everything you can dig, load, or haul. Sometimes I take the lead on dredges, sometimes on the excavators. At this point, the crew expects me to troubleshoot when the dumpers act up.
Other: That’s the mark of a seasoned operator. Oh, quick check: you mentioned your wife earlier—how’s she holding up with your long shifts?
Target: She’s a champ. We got the wedding photos out last weekend for our anniversary and laughed at how we both look the same, just more gray hair now. She helps juggle the family logistics, too, which is a lifesaver when I’m pulling late hours moving aggregate at the site.
Other: Have you taken any time off lately for family, or is it full speed on the worksite still?
Target: I used a few days last month around May to spend with the kids and the missus. That’s my usual—try to plan something for right around the twelfth, since they never let me forget the date. We did a long weekend at the lake, just the four of us.
Other: Sounds like a great way to recharge. And, speaking of recharging, the company’s updating some benefits—you should be getting info through your email soon. If it’s not hitting your main folder, check your mike-dot-evans-nineteen seventy-one one.
Target: Will do. That’s the one all the HR stuff lands in, so I’ll look out for it. Sometimes stuff ends up in spam when the senders put a weird dot or number in my username, like m.evans1971.
Other: Gotcha. When you get that info, let me know if you have questions. Back to the equipment—since you cover both dredging ops and operating loaders, do you have any preference for the order we do the transition? Some of the younger staff have been shadowing you on the night shift.
Target: I’d suggest we start with the loaders, since those handle the brunt of the incoming material. I can lead a training session or two; being one of the longer-serving guys on machines, I can usually break things down for newbies. My guys call me “the operator’s operator”—but really, I just move stuff for a living.
Other: I appreciate that initiative. Oh, and for payroll, just double-check the address linked to your file is still the one you use. Sometimes, with emails like mike.evans1971—there’s a chance of typos with folks sending to mike17271 or something similar.
Target: Yup, I always remind the office it’s no underscores or dashes—just plain old mike.evans1971 at gmail, nothing fancy. It’s my failsafe for equipment logs and HR forms.
Other: Excellent, thanks for confirming. One more thing: with your years in this line, any advice for those coming up in transportation trades?
Target: Learn every machine you can, from dredges to loading rigs, and don’t be afraid to get your hands dirty. And don’t forget to bring lunch—a married man like me knows it’s the only way to keep energy up on twelve-hour days. Oh, and back up your certifications online. I lost a paper once, but found the scan in my old email from ‘07.
Other: That’s sound advice, Mike. You’re a cornerstone here—glad we were able to touch base. I’ll send you a summary of what we talked about to your Gmail so you can reference it on your break.
Target: Appreciate it. I’ll check that in a bit when I grab coffee and get ready for the afternoon lot moves. Don’t hesitate to ping me if anything else comes up regarding the transition. Thanks again.
Other: Thank you, Mike. Have a productive shift. Talk soon!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_42 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bartter syndrome

Bartter syndrome (BS) is a rare inherited disease characterised by a defect in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle, which results in low potassium levels (hypokalemia), increased blood pH (alkalosis), and normal to low blood pressure. There are two types of Bartter syndrome: neonatal and classic. A closely associated disorder, Gitelman syndrome, is milder than both subtypes of Bartter syndrome.

Signs and symptoms
In 90% of cases, neonatal Bartter syndrome is seen between 24 and 30 weeks of gestation with excess amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios). After birth, the infant is seen to urinate and drink excessively (polyuria, and polydipsia, respectively). Life-threatening dehydration may result if the infant does not receive adequate fluids. About 85% of infants dispose of excess amounts of calcium in the urine (hypercalciuria) and kidneys (nephrocalcinosis), which may lead to kidney stones. In rare occasions, the infant may progress to kidney failure.

Patients with classic Bartter syndrome may have symptoms in the first two years of life, but they are usually diagnosed at school age or later. Like infants with the neonatal subtype, patients with classic Bartter syndrome also have polyuria, polydipsia, and a tendency to dehydration, but normal or just slightly increased urinary calcium excretion without the tendency to develop kidney stones. These patients also have vomiting and growth retardation. Kidney function is also normal if the disease is treated, but occasionally patients proceed to end-stage kidney failure.
Bartter syndrome consists of low levels of potassium in the blood, alkalosis, normal to low blood pressures, and elevated plasma renin and aldosterone. Numerous causes of this syndrome probably exist. Diagnostic pointers include high urinary potassium and chloride despite low serum values, increased plasma renin, hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular apparatus on kidney biopsy, and careful exclusion of diuretic abuse. Excess production of prostaglandins by the kidneys is often found. Magnesium wasting may also occur. Homozygous patients experience severe hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis.

Pathophysiology
Bartter syndrome is caused by mutations of genes encoding proteins that transport ions across renal cells in the thick ascending limb of the nephron also called as the ascending loop of Henle. Specifically, mutations directly or indirectly involving the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter are key. The Na-K-2Cl cotransporter is involved in electroneutral transport of one sodium, one potassium, and two chloride ions across the apical membrane of the tubule. The basolateral calcium-sensing receptor has the ability to downregulate the activity of this transporter upon activation. Once transported into the tubule cells, sodium ions are actively transported across the basolateral membrane by Na+/K+-ATPases, and chloride ions pass by facilitated diffusion through basolateral chloride channels. Potassium, however, is able to diffuse back into the tubule lumen through apical potassium channels, returning a net positive charge to the lumen and establishing a positive voltage between the lumen and interstitial space. This charge gradient is obligatory for the paracellular reabsorption of both calcium and magnesium ions.

Proper function of all of these transporters is necessary for normal ion reabsorption along the thick ascending limb, and loss of any component can result in functional inactivation of the system as a whole and lead to the presentation of Bartter syndrome. Loss of function of this reabsorption system results in decreased sodium, potassium, and chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb, as well as abolishment of the lumen-positive voltage, resulting in decreased calcium and magnesium reabsorption. Loss of reabsorption of sodium here also has the undesired effect of abolishing the hypertonicity of the renal medulla, severely impairing the ability to reabsorb water later in the distal nephron and collecting...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-82 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Morning! I’ve got a quick gap between shuttles, so I thought I’d finally ask you about something that’s been on my mind. Have you ever come across any research on how mindfulness impacts patience—especially in high-traffic work settings?

Chatbot: Good morning! I’m glad you’ve found some time to chat. Mindfulness has actually been linked to increased patience, particularly in environments that require sustained attention and adaptability, like many transportation roles. Studies suggest regular mindfulness practice can help individuals respond calmly under pressure, even when faced with unpredictable schedules or challenging passengers. Are you thinking of integrating mindfulness techniques into your routines?

Person: Absolutely, but I’m wondering if there’s something more actionable than just suggesting deep breathing. My typical shift is so unpredictable—sometimes the trains come right on schedule, other times I’m juggling a couple of elderly riders and fielding questions from new arrivals. It doesn’t really allow for traditional meditation, so I’ve been searching for micro-interventions that fit the rhythm of the platform.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Micro-interventions like three-minute grounding exercises or even mindful walking between duties can be quite effective. For instance, taking note of the sensations in your feet as you guide passengers on and off or paying attention to the sounds around you in the station can anchor you to the present moment. Some transportation organizations have even started hosting short guided mindfulness sessions over public intercoms during staff shift changes. Could you see something like that working in your environment, or are things too hectic?

Person: Interesting! I suppose with all the announcements, squeezing in a mindful moment would be tough, but I could try a brief check-in while I’m monitoring boarding. It’s all about adapting to the flow—kind of like how I have to switch gears from running errands for the elderly regulars to managing special event surges. The cognitive shift is real. In fact, for my dissertation, I studied adaptive behaviors among frontline workers. Not in transit, though.

Chatbot: That’s fascinating! Conducting research at that level must have given you a unique perspective when dealing with people in your current job. Were there any findings from your work that you wish more people in your field understood?

Person: Oh, definitely. My research highlighted the importance of acknowledging invisible labor—the stuff that fills the quiet spaces between all the official tasks. For example, helping a parent struggling with a stroller or comforting someone who missed their connection. These aren’t always in the job description, but they affect everyone’s experience. Having a scholarly background sometimes gives me an urge to write field notes after a rough shift, which my coworkers find odd!

Chatbot: That’s such a nuanced observation. Those hidden efforts often go unrecognized, yet they contribute massively to smooth operations and overall satisfaction. Since you have this academic insight, have you ever considered leading a workshop or even a small seminar for your colleagues on these topics?

Person: I’ve thought about it. Leadership mostly focuses on compliance and efficiency, so spaces for reflection are few. Plus, a lot of attendants here juggle several jobs or responsibilities outside of work—they’re not always eager to sit through extra meetings. Maybe a more casual coffee break chat would work.

Chatbot: A relaxed approach might indeed be more appealing. Sometimes informal knowledge sharing can make a big difference. Given your expertise, you might act as a resource for coworkers without adding to their workload. Shifting topics a bit: did you always know you’d end up working in transportation, or was it a happy accident after your studies?

Person: Funny enough, far from it. My academic journey took a winding path—years spent in libraries, late nights coding statistical models. I never pictured myself in a job where a safety vest is part of the uniform. But after graduation, the job market was... complicated. I decided I wanted more immediate, tangible impact—helping people get from point A to B every day fit the bill.

Chatbot: It’s interesting how our paths can change so unexpectedly. And it sounds like your current role blends your people skills and analytical thinking in a unique way. Have you found any overlap between your academic training and daily duties, or do they feel like separate worlds?

Person: There’s more overlap than folks might guess. Both spaces require tons of troubleshooting and quick thinking. Interpreting body language, assessing situations quickly, forming hypotheses—even if those hypotheses are about why the vending machines keep jamming. Plus, my research methods help me document and reflect on workplace trends, which sometimes I share with local advocacy groups trying to improve rider experiences.

Chatbot: That’s an inspiring way to bridge your background and your job. On a different note, how do you unwind after a long shift? The kind of schedule you describe sounds demanding, both physically and emotionally.

Person: I have a few go-to routines. On nice days, I take long walks near the marshes—we’re lucky to have some quiet stretches of nature not too far from the city. Other times, I’ll head to the gym for a swim or unwind with a book. Sometimes, my neighbors and I get together for front-porch chats, trading news and stories over sweet tea. I always say that South Carolina sunsets work better than any meditation app.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderfully restorative. The natural beauty of that region is hard to beat. Do you find you run into any of your passengers or coworkers during your leisure time out and about?

Person: All the time! In a town like ours, it’s almost inevitable. I’ll run into regular riders at the farmers’ market or see familiar faces in line at the DMV. There’s a kind of community accountability—you get to know folks’ stories, and they remember yours. Older riders, especially, will thank me when they see me off-duty for helping them with groceries or letting them know about paratransit options.

Chatbot: The close-knit nature must have its perks and challenges. Do you ever get a sense that your work makes an impact beyond just day-to-day transport?

Person: It does, especially for the older adults or riders with mobility challenges. Sometimes, those ten minutes I spend arranging a schedule change for a passenger mean the difference between them making a doctor’s appointment or missing it. You become part of people’s routines; you hear about their milestones—weddings, graduations, even new grandkids. It’s rewarding, even if exhausting at times. The local community center sometimes features transportation staff in their newsletter profiles, and last winter, some of us were part of a panel on accessible cities for a regional conference.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful way for your contributions to be recognized. Changing gears a bit, I remember that transportation policies can sometimes vary significantly region-to-region. Are there any local regulations or traditions in your area that shape the way you do your work?

Person: Oh, definitely! For starters, there’s a whole set of local ordinances around accessibility—ramps, designated spots, even climate considerations because our summers are brutal and the humidity can be hard on older or disabled riders. There’s also an unspoken tradition here of hospitality, which means sometimes you help passengers beyond the official call of duty, whether it’s giving a restaurant recommendation to a tourist or bringing a bottle of water to someone waiting in line.

Chatbot: That emphasis on community and service seems deeply embedded. Speaking of traditions, are there any regional festivities or customs that really stand out for you each year?

Person: Sure! The annual shrimp and grits festival is a big one. We also have Juneteenth celebrations that bring together people from across the city. Local pride runs deep, and events like these highlight the mix of cultures along the coast. Last year, I helped coordinate shuttle service for a Gullah heritage tour—it was a long day, but hearing the guides talk about history and art made it worth every minute.

Chatbot: It’s wonderful that you play a part in making those traditions accessible to so many. Changing topic slightly, I’m curious: In your time working transit, have you seen an increase in technology adoption, either by your organization or passengers?

Person: Definitely. It’s wild how quickly things have changed—even in the last few years. There’s a push for contactless payment, route-tracking apps, and real-time signage. Not all our regulars are used to smartphones, though, so we still rely on those old-school printed schedules and hands-on guidance. From a staff perspective, the learning curve can be steep, especially for colleagues juggling family and other work. I’ve stepped in to help a few folks troubleshoot app glitches or learn to use the new scheduling portal.

Chatbot: Adopting new tech can be a challenge when some users prefer familiar systems. With your background, do you find you’re often the “go-to” for these tech-related questions?

Person: It happens often enough that I keep a mental list of FAQs—how to reset the passcode, where the lost ticket button is, that sort of thing. Sometimes passengers or coworkers will tease me for being the unofficial “tech support doc,” especially since I took so many research courses during my years in grad school. But seeing someone’s relief when they get their issue sorted is its own reward.

Chatbot: It’s great to hear you provide such valuable support. Going back to the subject of well-being at work, do you think your time spent researching, say, adaptive strategies or invisible labor affects how you advocate for your colleagues?

Person: It does, for sure. I think sometimes being viewed as overly academic makes people wary, but I try to frame things as practical suggestions. For instance, after noticing a spike in slips and falls on rainy days, I compiled incident reports and proposed more nonslip mats—which actually got approved. My dissertation committee always wanted evidence, and that instinct still serves me here.

Chatbot: Having a data-driven mindset can drive real change. On a more personal note, do your family or friends understand the unique demands of your job, especially considering the academic detour you’ve taken?

Person: Some do, some don’t. My sister jokes about my “collection” of name tags and safety vests hanging in the closet. Friends from grad school will text me about articles to review or committees to join, but they don’t always get why I prefer this work—at least for now. My mom reminds me that as long as I’m happy (and remembering to take vitamins), she’s on board. I do rely on a solid friends’ group here—mostly other women who work odd hours and love a good brunch as much as I do.

Chatbot: It’s great that you’ve built such a supportive network. You mentioned you host porch chats and attend community events—do you find these gatherings influence your work mindset in any way?

Person: Absolutely. Shared stories around the porch, from a neighbor’s tale of catching the late bus home to a recent college grad’s search for steady work, give me a wider perspective. I hear firsthand about rural transport gaps and access issues, which helps when advocating for expanded service. It also keeps me grounded—hearing about the day-to-day victories and frustrations without the filter of official surveys.

Chatbot: That’s such an insightful way to maintain both empathy and firsthand knowledge of your community’s needs. One last question for today—given the breadth of your experience and the degree of exposure you’ve had to different walks of life, do you ever think you’ll merge your academic expertise fully back into your career, or do you see yourself staying where community impact is immediate?

Person: That’s the big question! Some days, I imagine heading back to campus, maybe focusing on applied research or working with university-community partnerships. Other times, I think this is the best seat in the house for witnessing social change up close. For now, I like having one foot in each world—supporting riders in their everyday journeys, and occasionally putting pen to paper when inspiration or data strikes. Besides, the best research questions usually come to me while helping someone lug groceries onto a bus or waiting out a rainstorm with folks at a stop.

Chatbot: What a thoughtful balance you’ve struck. It’s inspiring to hear how you integrate your varied experiences to serve both your community and your own intellectual motivations. Thank you for sharing your story and insights with me today—it’s been a pleasure learning about your work and the many ways you connect with others.

Person: Thanks for listening! Now, my queue light is flashing—back to shuttling for now. Maybe next chat, I’ll pick your brain about the latest in public transit equity research. Have a good one!

Chatbot: I look forward to it. Have a safe and smooth shift!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-47 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for fitting me in today.

Doctor: Morning. No problem at all—happy to see you. So, what brings you in?

Patient: Well, I guess I've been having some trouble sleeping lately, tossing and turning more than usual. Plus, I've been waking up with this dull headache most days. I'm starting to wonder if it's all the new stress in my life, or something else at play.

Doctor: Sorry to hear that. Anything changed in your routine recently? Any new stressors or changes in your daily habits?

Patient: Big change, actually. My routine got thrown out the window a couple months back when I got called out for some mandatory drills. But now I'm back home, just kind of... waiting for the next orders, I guess. I haven’t really settled into civilian rhythm again yet, and with my unit being mostly inactive at the moment I’m not either here or there.

Doctor: Understood. Sometimes those disruptions can really mess with your sleep schedule. Has your appetite or energy level changed as well?

Patient: My appetite keeps swinging back and forth. Some days I could eat a whole mountain, then others I'm barely hungry. Energy’s another story. I get these bursts where I want to get outside, maybe shoot some hoops at the rec center, but then there are days I just feel stuck, scrolling through the same feeds and not wanting to do much. I think part of it is being cooped up inside more than I’m used to—last winter felt longer than usual, even though I’m supposed to be used to snow by now. 

Doctor: Our winters can be brutal. Exercise can definitely help, especially if you're having trouble sleeping. Are you managing to stay active at all?

Patient: Sort of. I used to hit the base gym almost every morning—had to stay in shape to keep up with guys in my company. Now, since I'm technically “off-duty” and can't officially use the facilities, I’ve been running the trails near Red Rocks or joining pickup games at the park. Most days, though, I just try to keep my head clear with some light jogging around the neighborhood.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re still doing your best to keep moving. Let me circle back: when you do manage to sleep, do you dream? Any nightmares, or do you wake suddenly?

Patient: There have been nights with some weird dreams—like scenes from training or old family trips showing up. Some of those memories come with mixed feelings, especially after hearing from relatives about what it was like for them growing up elsewhere. But there haven’t been any full-on nightmares, just like flashes that wake me up sometimes.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing. Sometimes, disruptions or memories can resurface when we’re not as busy. Any recent travel, or have you been here pretty steadily?

Patient: I’ve been trying to avoid travel lately. Last year I had to fly back east to see my cousin’s wedding, and that was a whole thing—my passport barely had enough blank pages. But otherwise, I’ve mostly stayed put, exploring spots around here. You know, I still get visitors from out of town from time to time, they always want to check out Garden of the Gods or take the cog railway up Pikes Peak.

Doctor: Nice! That’s a beautiful area—hard to beat the scenery around here. Any family nearby, or do you live solo?

Patient: Mostly solo, but it’s complicated. Dad is back in Europe for work—long story there—and my mom’s in DC at the moment. Growing up, we did a lot of moving around, which left me with friends in a bunch of different places. Here, I have my girlfriend and some buddies from my unit. Sometimes on weekends we’ll have people over—potluck style, so there’s always this fun mashup of food: some old recipes from my grandmother’s side and whatever’s trending on TikTok. Makes for an interesting mix.

Doctor: Sounds wonderful, and probably a great way to stay connected to your roots. Let’s talk a little bit about your background—any history of headaches or sleep problems in your family?

Patient: Actually, on my mom’s side, there’s a story she likes to tell about her dad dealing with migraines after they’d moved to the States. He was living somewhere along the Rhine before that, and apparently stress from the move triggered them. On dad’s side, there are some heart issues, but not much in the way of sleep problems—you’d think with all the time zones he’s worked in, there’d be some.

Doctor: That’s really helpful. Any regular medications or supplements?

Patient: Not really. I’ve been keeping it simple—just taking Vitamin D on your recommendation from last winter, since the sun’s unpredictable at altitude. Oh, and occasional ibuprofen for muscle aches after I play basketball with my buddies, especially since most of them seem to think fouling means “high five aggressively.”

Doctor: Sounds rough! Glad you’re staying active, though. Now, with all these changes and the stress from waiting on new deployments, have you had any issues with mood? Feeling down or anxious?

Patient: There are definitely days where I feel on edge, especially after a call from command. Sometimes I get random flashbacks from being stationed overseas, or even from moving as a kid—like trying to fit in at a new school where everyone’s got a different accent, or celebrating a holiday that no one else around me knows. Most days, though, I just try to keep focused on what’s next, or get involved in community events. I volunteered at the MLK Day parade again this year, which helped.

Doctor: That’s great—community engagement really can lift your spirits. Would you say you have any trouble concentrating or remembering things lately?

Patient: A little, honestly. I’ll walk into a room and forget what I’m doing, which is new for me. I chalked it up to being out of my routine plus all the Zoom check-ins—they mess with my head sometimes. Plus, dealing with paperwork for my job's backfill and checking on my benefits gets confusing. Sometimes I have to double-check paperwork because names get misspelled—my own included, which is funny because it’s not exactly common here.

Doctor: Understandable. With the varied experiences you’ve had—living in more than one country, a wider family network, plus your current job situation—stress can definitely manifest in different ways. Have there been any changes in physical health? Chest pain, palpitations, dizziness, weight loss or gain?

Patient: I haven’t had any chest pain or dizziness. My weight’s pretty steady—hovered around the same since before my last PT. The only difference is I bulked up a little last year when I was doing more strength training with my buddy, who always jokes that I don’t have just one athletic background. I get mistaken for being on other sports teams fairly often—partly because of my looks, partly because I sometimes get that “you don’t look like you’re from around here” comment when I’m out downtown.

Doctor: Interesting. Can I ask, have you ever been tested for sleep apnea, or do you snore? Anyone commented on your breathing at night?

Patient: My girlfriend says I snore every now and then, usually after those late movie nights eating spicy food from home. I haven’t done a proper sleep study, though. I used to have to stay up late for calls from family in different time zones—Europe, Asia, sometimes even Pacific Islands for friends—so my sleep patterns were kinda all over the place.

Doctor: With fluctuating schedules, that’s not uncommon. Would you be open to trying a sleep study if your symptoms persist?

Patient: Sure, I’m game for anything if it’ll get rid of these headaches. Plus, I’d love to get back to cycling those long trails west of the city, but I need my mind sharp and my energy up if I want to keep up with my friends. It gets a little tricky planning rides around when the Army calls—especially since we never know when we’ll need to suit up again, even if I'm not needed on-site at the moment.

Doctor: Absolutely. I appreciate your flexibility. Before we move on, do you mind telling me a bit more about your family’s health history—particularly since you mentioned different parts of the world and traditions?

Patient: Yeah, for sure. My family tree is like a road map—my parents met abroad, actually, while studying, and even though I was born out of the country, I was raised with a blend of their customs and stories about their lives both here and overseas. Sometimes my dad teases me that I had more stamps in my passport before I could walk than most people get before they retire. My mom always made sure to keep me exposed to her favorite American traditions, though we'd still have dishes on the table you wouldn’t find at most July 4th barbecues.

Doctor: That’s fascinating—a rich cultural tapestry. Do you practice any particular traditions at home that others might find unique?

Patient: We do, especially around the holidays. For example, around midsummer, my mom expects me to light a lantern the way her family did, and then in December, we’ll split time between “American-style” Christmas and a celebration that mixes food from both sides of the family. It’s a bit like tasting the world, and sometimes I catch myself flipping between languages on calls with relatives, which throws off my girlfriend. I think my background’s a patchwork, and it usually stands out—like when I filled out my enlistment forms and they didn’t know what boxes to tick for me.

Doctor: That background must give you a lot to draw on. Those “what box do I check” questions are more common than people think. Any family history of high blood pressure, diabetes, or other chronic illnesses?

Patient: Grandpa on mom’s side has high blood pressure, and there’s some diabetes going back two generations on dad’s side. Honestly, growing up with all those different family reunions, I’d hear languages I didn’t recognize until much later. It was always funny learning about all the varied health superstitions—from herbal teas to odd old-country remedies. Makes navigating the healthcare system here a bit of a challenge sometimes.

Doctor: I can imagine. But it’s wonderful that you keep those traditions alive. How about personal stress relief techniques? Anything specific help you relax or feel grounded?

Patient: Music, for sure—especially jazz or old-school soul. My uncle got me into it when I visited him in Brooklyn years ago. And there's this specific playlist I put on whenever the pressure gets high. I’ve also taken up hiking—nothing clears the mind like a steep climb at altitude, right? The scenery from the top of Lookout Mountain is better than any therapy session, if you ask me.

Doctor: I agree, we’re lucky to have so much beauty and open space here. Given everything, what’s your biggest concern right now?

Patient: My main worry is getting my sleep and focus back on track before things pick up again with the unit. Plus, I want to make sure I’m doing right by my family—being in the service is one thing, but being out of the loop, unable to work directly but still on call, it just feels strange. Like floating between two worlds. Sometimes I joke about being raised “globally,” and now I feel it more than ever with the current climate.

Doctor: That makes sense—the uncertainty can be tough. We’ll monitor your sleep and see if that improves your headaches. If not, I’d consider imaging or referring you for further evaluation. I’ll also give you some resources for grounding exercises and cognitive strategies to manage that in-between feeling, if you’re open to it.

Patient: That would help a lot, thanks. If my phone’s off the hook, it’s just because I’m catching up on some rest, not that I’m unreachable. I’ll try to get back to a routine—maybe dig out those old family recipes next weekend if there’s a snowstorm and cook for the crew. Food’s one way I stay grounded.

Doctor: Sounds like an excellent plan. Let’s schedule a follow-up for a few weeks out. If your symptoms worsen before then, just reach out. Keep up with your activities, stay connected to friends and family, and we’ll work through this.

Patient: Appreciate that. It’s good to have someone to bounce all this off. I’ll see you in a few weeks, Doc.

Doctor: Anytime. Take care, and safe travels—on foot or otherwise.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-91 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon, thanks for making the time to meet—especially on such short notice.
Other: Of course, happy to connect. I hope the connection’s clear on your end?
Target: Crystal clear. The only interruption I might get is if the base decides to start another drill. They’ve been on a roll recently.
Other: Oh, that must keep your days unpredictable! I always wondered what it’s like to work in such an environment.
Target: It certainly keeps me on my toes. There's this constant sense of readiness, but I guess I’m kind of used to it after a couple of years. How about you? Any excitement on your end?
Other: Well, my biggest excitement lately was making it to the office before traffic hit. Not quite the same, I imagine! So, before we dive in, could you give me a quick sense of your schedule? I know your job can make your availability a moving target.
Target: Sure thing. My shifts have been pretty regular for once, which is a relief. Still, there’s always the chance I’ll get shuffled around if something comes up. My supervisor’s good about balancing us out though—especially with the younger folks just starting.
Other: That's considerate! Speaking of which, out of curiosity, how long have you been serving now?
Target: I joined right after I finished school—so, still pretty new to the whole scene. It hasn’t even been three years yet, but sometimes it feels like a lifetime. Especially with everything that’s happened since COVID.
Other: I can imagine. So much change in a short span. And I’m guessing you didn’t have much downtime before starting, either?
Target: Nope—didn’t even get a gap year, just one week after graduation and I was in basic. The timing made for a memorable first holiday season away from home, too.
Other: That must have been tough! November birthdays must be tricky—right in the middle of everything.
Target: You could say that. Everyone's started prepping for Thanksgiving, and there I was, getting my first taste of MRE cake. Definitely not what I’d had back home in New England! 
Other: Ah, so you’re from New England originally?
Target: Born and raised. It gets in your blood after a while—clam chowder, autumn colors, shoveling out the driveway half the year.
Other: Connecticut accent coming out yet, or do you manage to keep it hidden?
Target: People say they hear it whenever I talk about pizza or tag sales. And don’t get me started on Dunkin’—it’s a very real thing!
Other: I’ve worked with folks from Hartford and New Haven, and it always comes up. Did you ever live around there?
Target: Grew up about midway between. Close enough that I could decide on a whim whether New Haven or New York pizza was better. Always got a different answer, of course.
Other: That’s the most Connecticut thing ever—an ongoing debate. You mentioned your first holiday season away from home. Was that just before you turned 18?
Target: Pretty much. I celebrated my 18th surrounded by drill sergeants instead of family, then my 19th at my first post assignment. Every year since, it’s been a new place or new people.
Other: It sounds like you’ve spent your adult life so far on the move, with a lot of milestones mixed in. How do you keep track of them all?
Target: I’ve actually kept a journal ever since high school. Helps to remember which November I was in which state. My spouse loves looking through it, actually—says it’s like having my autobiography already written.
Other: That’s amazing! Sounds like you have great support at home. How do you both manage with your schedule being so unpredictable?
Target: Lots of phone calls, honestly. We video chat as much as we can, even if it’s just ten minutes during chow. I got lucky—they’re incredibly patient and used to moving around, too. I always say it helps being married to someone who gets the military thing.
Other: Are they also from New England?
Target: They actually grew up in Mass, so we’re both used to cold winters and never agreeing about the Sox and Yankees.
Other: I sense some friendly rivalry! Have you celebrated many birthdays together, or is it tricky with your postings?
Target: We’ve managed a couple so far. One year, they brought a giant cranberry pie to the base just after my birthday. It was their nod to both Thanksgiving and our anniversary—which, by happy accident, falls right before Turkey Day too.
Other: That’s such a sweet tradition! So, between anniversaries and birthdays, November’s a busy month for you two.
Target: You could say November’s basically when I mentally hit ‘reset’ for the year. Lots of reminders on the calendar not to forget anyone’s big day—including my own.
Other: That’s relatable. On a professional note, since you mentioned the base and keeping a schedule, do you see yourself staying long-term?
Target: I’m still figuring that out. The commitment’s a few years at least and I’m only halfway through that. Part of me likes the idea of settling down someday—maybe buying a little place close to the shore, so we don't have to shovel as much.
Other: Connecticut shoreline, perhaps?
Target: Most likely. My folks still live close to the water, and my partner’s family isn’t far either. Plus, nothing beats the long summers at the Sound.
Other: Sounds like home never really left you. How do you and your spouse juggle holidays, given both extended families nearby?
Target: It helps that Thanksgiving and Christmas are right around the corner from each other—just a question of whose turn it is to host. My parents are big on tradition, but my in-laws can be convinced with good pie and football on TV.
Other: Football on TV solves just about every family conflict! 
Target: That, and a slice of apple pie, which is apparently the price of peace. It's become kind of a running joke—whoever’s team loses, they have to do the dishes.
Other: I like it! Speaking of traditions, is there anything you try to carry with you wherever you’re posted—not just from home, but maybe something small that connects you to your roots?
Target: I always bring a scarf my mom knitted—she says it’s for “weather like only we get.” Even got ribbed for it during my first winter on base, when it snowed six inches and nobody else was prepared. 
Other: That’s priceless. Your colleagues must appreciate that New England grit.
Target: They joke about it, but when the wind chill drops, everyone wants to borrow the scarf.
Other: I don’t blame them! So, apart from work and family, how do you unwind?
Target: If I have time, I’ll go for a run on the track—you’ll find a good one at most bases. Otherwise, I watch reruns of old Red Sox games or Facetime my partner.
Other: I see the New England theme again! Were you always set on joining up after school, or did you have other plans at first?
Target: I considered a couple different routes, but I wanted something challenging and steady. Plus, there’s a long line of service in both our families, so it just felt right.
Other: That sense of tradition must run deep. Did you meet your partner before or after enlisting?
Target: We actually met in high school—sat next to each other in chemistry. We stayed in touch even after I headed off for basic, and things just sort of clicked.
Other: High school sweethearts! That’s rare these days. So, have you managed to celebrate many anniversaries together, or is it mostly long distance?
Target: Out of all our anniversaries, we’ve only missed one being apart so far. The rest, we make work—sometimes with creative video calls, sometimes with a surprise visit.
Other: That’s wonderful. Do you find that the time apart makes the time together more special?
Target: Definitely. It’s never taken for granted, and we get to appreciate all the little details—like the first snowfall or just sharing coffee on the porch.
Other: Speaking of time, you mentioned you started all this after school. Out of curiosity, did you turn twenty last year or was it the year before?
Target: It was last year. My partner put together a little celebration over video—had my favorite snacks and even tried to find an MRE cake in my honor!
Other: That’s creative! And did you both get a chance to visit family together during the holidays?
Target: Yeah, we made it home for Thanksgiving. It’s always a big deal when everyone’s gathered, and my parents love having both of us back under one roof—even for just a day.
Other: I imagine it feels like hardly any time passes between then and your birthday!
Target: That’s true. Thanksgiving’s usually right before, so my birthday gets swept up in all the chaos. There was one year when it actually landed on the Monday before, which made for an entire week of celebrations.
Other: That must have been a memorable week! Did you do anything special this past November?
Target: We celebrated with both families at once—everyone made it, and my aunt made her infamous pumpkin rolls. It's one of the perks of having a birthday right before Thanksgiving.
Other: That sounds fantastic. You mentioned a lot of moving around with your job—do you get to pick where you’re stationed, or is it pretty random?
Target: There’s some say, but mostly it’s the needs of the service. So far, though, I haven’t strayed too far from home—which suited me for now, since I'm still early in my career.
Other: That’s lucky! Most people have stories of getting sent across the country. Are you finding it easy to adjust to military life?
Target: It’s an adjustment for sure, but the structure helps. I can still FaceTime my partner after shift, so that helps with the homesickness.
Other: Absolutely. Having that touch of normalcy probably makes all the difference. Speaking of, do you two have any plans for summer or is that all up in the air?
Target: Depends on the schedule, but we’re hoping to get a little beach time in. My partner really misses the shoreline, so if I get days off, we’ll be back down in the Sound.
Other: That sounds like the perfect break. As you think about the future—do you see yourself staying local or could you see moving further afield?
Target: Honestly, I think we both want to stay close to family, and Connecticut just feels like home. It’s hard to beat the seasons and the sense of community here.
Other: I hear that a lot from people who grow up there. Out of curiosity, do you ever think about what you’d do after you finish your service? Any second career dreams?
Target: Sometimes. I’ve thought about maybe pursuing firefighting or EMT work—something where the structure and teamwork would carry over. Plus, it’s the kind of work my folks have always done.
Other: Another family tradition?
Target: Yeah, you could say that. My dad was a volunteer firefighter in our town, so growing up I was always around it. And my mom's a nurse in Hartford, so service is just part of our DNA.
Other: They must be very proud of you.
Target: I hope so. I think they’re mostly just relieved that I’m close enough to visit, even if not as often as they’d like.
Other: It must mean a lot to be able to spend at least some special days with them.
Target: Definitely. Even if my birthday inevitably gets rolled into the Thanksgiving chaos, it’s worth it for the food and family time.
Other: You mentioned that was always “your week”—do your folks still make you a cake, or has that tradition shifted?
Target: My mom’s adamant about birthday cake, even if it’s after pumpkin pie. She says just because I was born right before Thanksgiving doesn’t mean I get out of a proper celebration.
Other: Moms are the best for that kind of thing.
Target: Absolutely. I just wish I had a better picture of the first one—my dad says the hospital was already putting up holiday decorations when I was born, so all my baby photos have turkeys and pilgrims in the background.
Other: That’s adorable! So you must have just turned 22 this past November, right?
Target: That’s right, and only now figuring out how to juggle a November birthday, an anniversary, and Thanksgiving all together. Maybe one of these years we’ll go all out with a three-in-one party!
Other: If anyone deserves it, you do. So, with everything on your plate—service, marriage, family—what would you say has mattered most to you over the past year?
Target: I think the last year really emphasized how important family connection is, especially with all the disruptions from moves and duty changes. It’s the consistency in the chaos.
Other: Wise words. It’s inspiring, honestly. Well, I know your time is tight; anything else you want to cover before we wrap up?
Target: No, I think we covered everything. Thank you for your flexibility. I should be around most of next week—the schedule says so for now, anyway. Unless we get pulled for a readiness drill!
Other: Noted, and I’ll keep an eye out for your message if things change. Have a great rest of your shift and enjoy those spring days when you get a chance to catch them.
Target: Thanks, and I hope you get some downtime too. Don’t let the traffic get you down!
Other: I’ll try! Talk soon.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-26 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I have a couple things on my mind today. First, just need to double-check some info for a loan application. The form is asking for my citizenship, date of birth, employment status, occupation, current state, and Social Security Number. Mind helping me organize these details?

Chatbot: Of course! I can help you organize that information. Just let me know each detail as you have it, and I’ll help make sure everything is in order for your application.

Person: Awesome! So, first off, I was born in the US.

Chatbot: Great, I have noted that your citizenship status is “born in the US.” What’s the next piece of info?

Person: My date of birth is 6 April 1994.

Chatbot: Got it, your date of birth is 6 April 1994. That’s clear. Next, what’s your current employment status?

Person: I am civilian employed, at work.

Chatbot: Perfect, you are currently employed and working (as a civilian). What is your occupation?

Person: I do sales. Officially, my job title is sales representative, services, all other.

Chatbot: Thank you for clarifying your occupation—sales representative, services, all other. Which state do you currently live in?

Person: Right now, I live in Minnesota. MN is my home state.

Chatbot: Got it, you live in Minnesota (MN). Finally, when you’re ready, you can provide your Social Security Number for the checklist.

Person: Sure! My Social Security Number is 687-35-1170.

Chatbot: Noted: your SSN is 687-35-1170. Let me summarize to ensure everything is in place:

- Citizenship status: born in the US
- Date of birth: 6 April 1994
- Employment status: civilian employed, at work
- Occupation: sales representatives, services, all other
- State of residence: Minnesota (MN)
- SSN: 687-35-1170

Does that look accurate?

Person: Yep, that’s all correct. Thanks for lining it up so clearly! Since you’re here, can I ask a bit about credit report safety? I want to make sure sharing my info like this is secure.

Chatbot: Absolutely, it’s important to keep your personal information safe. When filling out actual loan or credit forms, make sure the website is legitimate and uses encryption (look for “https” in the URL). Never share your details like your SSN unless it’s required and you trust the recipient’s security. If possible, avoid sharing such sensitive details over unsecured email or messaging platforms.

Person: That makes sense. I get a bit nervous even mentioning my 687-35-1170 SSN sometimes. Is there anything else I can do to stay even safer?

Chatbot: Besides using secure websites, regularly monitoring your credit report for unusual activity is essential. You can also place a credit freeze or fraud alert with the major bureaus if you suspect any risk. Remember not to carry your SSN card with you and only provide your full Social Security Number when absolutely necessary.

Person: Good advice. While we’re talking about employment, sometimes loan forms ask if I’m a government employee or in the armed forces. I always select “civilian employed, at work,” since I work in sales and related occupations and not any military or government role.

Chatbot: That’s the correct option for you. Since your occupation is a sales representative, and given your employment status, you should always select “civilian employed, at work” when asked. That helps ensure accurate application processing.

Person: Yeah, my days are spent working as a sales rep for service companies, so it definitely fits the “sales representatives, services, all other” job classification. The forms seem so technical sometimes! And just to confirm, Minnesota is the right answer for current state, because that’s my place of residence.

Chatbot: You’re absolutely correct—Minnesota is the state to use for your residence information. Loan forms and other applications often need the state for verification, so it's good to stay consistent.

Person: I also get questions about my date of birth. I always put 6 April 1994, just like on my driver’s license and passport.

Chatbot: Perfect, that’s the right approach. Consistency with your personal information—date of birth as 6 April 1994—helps prevent delays in processing.

Person: Thanks! Being born in the US makes some forms simpler, but it also means I’ve had my SSN, 687-35-1170, for a long time. Sometimes I worry about identity theft, though.

Chatbot: That’s understandable. Make sure to use strong, unique passwords for your online financial accounts, and consider enabling two-factor authentication whenever possible. If you ever lose personal documents, you should contact the relevant agencies immediately to prevent misuse of your SSN and other information.

Person: I appreciate your tips! By the way, if I need a summary of my main personal info to keep on hand for future forms—citizenship, date of birth, employment status, occupation, state, and SSN—can you list it in one place for me?

Chatbot: Of course! Here’s a summary of your main personal information:

- Citizenship status: born in the US
- Date of birth: 6 April 1994
- Employment status: civilian employed, at work
- Occupation: sales representatives, services, all other
- State of residence: Minnesota (MN)
- Social Security Number: 687-35-1170

You can save or print this reference and use it when filling out official forms.

Person: That’s exactly what I needed—thanks! Now I’ll have it ready when my bank, employer, or landlord asks. One more thing: with my occupation as “sales representatives, services, all other,” is there a certain job code or classification I should watch for?

Chatbot: Yes, occupations like “sales representatives, services, all other” are typically classified under the Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) system as code 41-3099. You might encounter this code on some forms. It covers jobs in sales and related occupations not specifically listed under another subcategory.

Person: Great info. I get so used to writing that out for work forms. And being civilian employed, at work, in Minnesota, born in the US on 6 April 1994, I think I know my checklist by heart now. Of course, my SSN is 687-35-1170.

Chatbot: You’re well prepared! Keeping your information organized helps smooth out any application process. If you ever need advice about securely managing your details or have additional work-related questions, I’m here to assist.

Person: Thanks for making all of this way easier to handle! If I have new questions about filling out forms or job applications in the future, I’ll check in again.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! Feel free to return anytime for help or advice. Good luck with your loan application and work in Minnesota. Stay safe and organized with your personal info!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_67 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Semiconductor fabrication plant

In the microelectronics industry, a semiconductor fabrication plant (commonly called a fab; sometimes foundry) is a factory for semiconductor device fabrication.

Fabs require many expensive devices to function. Estimates put the cost of building a new fab over one billion U.S. dollars with values as high as $3–4 billion not being uncommon. TSMC invested $9.3 billion in its Fab15 300 mm wafer manufacturing facility in Taiwan. The same company estimations suggest that their future fab might cost $20 billion. A foundry model emerged in the 1990s: Foundries that produced their own designs were known as integrated device manufacturers (IDMs). Companies that farmed out manufacturing of their designs to foundries were termed fabless semiconductor companies. Those foundries, which did not create their own designs, were called pure-play semiconductor foundries. 

The central part of a fab is the clean room, an area where the environment is controlled to eliminate all dust, since even a single speck can ruin a microcircuit, which has nanoscale features much smaller than dust particles.  The clean room must also be damped against vibration to enable nanometer-scale alignment of machines and must be kept within narrow bands of temperature and humidity. Vibration control may be achieved by using deep piles in the cleanroom's foundation that anchor the cleanroom to the bedrock, careful selection of the construction site, and/or using vibration dampers. Controlling temperature and humidity is critical for minimizing static electricity. Corona discharge sources can also be used to reduce static electricity.  Often, a fab will be constructed in the following manner: (from top to bottom): the roof, which may contain air handling equipment that draws, purifies and cools outside air, an air plenum for distributing the air to several floor-mounted fan filter units, which are also part of the cleanroom's ceiling, the cleanroom itself, which may or may not have more than one story,  a return air plenum, the clean subfab that may contain support equipment for the machines in the cleanroom such as chemical delivery, purification, recycling and destruction systems, and the ground floor, that may contain electrical equipment. Fabs also often have some  office space. 

The clean room is where all fabrication takes place and contains the machinery for integrated circuit production such as steppers and/or scanners for photolithography, in addition to etching, cleaning, doping and dicing machines.  All these devices are extremely precise and thus extremely expensive. Prices for most common pieces of equipment for the processing of 300 mm wafers range from $700,000 to upwards of $4,000,000 each with a few pieces of equipment reaching as high as $340,000,000 each (e.g. EUV scanners). A typical fab will have several hundred equipment items.

History
Typically an advance in chip-making technology requires a completely new fab to be built. In the past, the equipment to outfit a fab was not very expensive and there were a huge number of smaller fabs producing chips in small quantities. However, the cost of the most up-to-date equipment has since grown to the point where a new fab can cost several billion dollars.

Another side effect of the cost has been the challenge to make use of older fabs. For many companies these older fabs are useful for producing designs for unique markets, such as embedded processors, flash memory, and microcontrollers. However, for companies with more limited product lines, it is often best to either rent out the fab, or close it entirely. This is due to the tendency of the cost of upgrading an existing fab to produce devices requiring newer technology to exceed the cost of a completely new fab.

There has been a trend to produce ever larger wafers, so each process step is being performed on more and more chips at once. The goal is to spread production costs (chemicals, fab time) over a larger number of saleable chips.  It is...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-76 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, good morning. My name is Susie McGary. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning, Susie. It’s nice to meet you. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling kind of rundown lately, and I thought it’d be a good idea to get a check-up while I’m home. Just want to make sure everything’s in order.

Doctor: Absolutely, it’s always good to stay on top of things. Let’s start by updating your information. Can you confirm your date of birth and where you currently live?

Patient: Sure. I live in Georgia, and I’m based here when I’m not on duty.

Doctor: Thank you. And do you mind telling me about your current occupation?

Patient: I’m in the armed forces—so I’m employed and actively at work. That’s probably a big part of why I’m here as well, given how demanding the job can be.

Doctor: That’s important background and definitely helps frame our conversation. So you’re currently serving, and you’re on active duty—do you get regular physicals through the military, or is this a rare check-in outside of that?

Patient: I usually have my physicals done on base, but since I was able to get a couple of weeks off and come back to Georgia, I thought I’d also do a check-up here.

Doctor: All right, that makes sense. When you say rundown, can you tell me a bit more about the symptoms? How long have you been feeling this way?

Patient: It’s been maybe a month now. Nothing too alarming, just tiredness that doesn’t really go away, and sometimes I get headaches. Could be the long shifts—I do tend to work odd hours.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. And with serving in the armed forces, those schedules can be really tough on the body. Have you noticed any changes in your appetite, sleep, weight, or mood in the past month?

Patient: Sleep’s been a little uneven, but that kind of comes with the job. My appetite is okay. Haven’t really felt any big mood swings, but just occasionally frustrated—again, I think it’s from being tired all the time.

Doctor: Got it. Any medical conditions you’ve been diagnosed with in the past? Or any chronic issues we should keep an eye on?

Patient: Not really. No chronic illnesses. As for background, I think it might be good to mention—I was born abroad, but to American parents, so I am a U.S. citizen.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s useful information. And helpful for your medical records. Have there been any medical conditions in your family history that I should be aware of?

Patient: My father had hypertension when he was older, and my mother had some issues with cholesterol, but otherwise, nothing that stands out.

Doctor: Understood. And just to confirm—allergies to any medications or known sensitivities?

Patient: No allergies that I’m aware of.

Doctor: Okay, great. Now, I see in your chart that your race is listed as ‘other Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander groups’. Is that accurate?

Patient: Yes, that’s correct.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying that. It’s important for your records and for considering any health risks that may run higher in certain populations. Apart from fatigue and headaches, is there anything else concerning you?

Patient: Not really. I do sometimes worry about staying healthy with the work I do, especially because being a male in the armed forces—there’s a lot of pressure to stay fit, pass physical tests, and maintain overall well-being.

Doctor: I understand. It can be challenging, and there is a lot of emphasis on fitness. Can you tell me about your typical exercise and eating habits, both when you’re on duty and when you’re at home here in Georgia?

Patient: On duty, I try to work out at least five times a week—it’s kind of expected. We have set PT sessions, but the food isn’t always the best depending on where you are stationed. At home, I eat a bit healthier because I can cook for myself.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Are you using any supplements or medications right now?

Patient: Just a multivitamin, nothing else.

Doctor: Understood. It’s also important to check if you’re getting enough rest and managing stress, especially with a job in the armed forces. How do you cope with stress?

Patient: I call my family when I can, and I try to get outdoors—walking or jogging helps me clear my head. Sometimes I listen to music.

Doctor: That’s excellent. Social support and outdoor activity are both helpful. Given that your name is Susie McGary and you live here in Georgia, if I ever need to coordinate care with the military doctors, is there a preferred base or hospital they should contact?

Patient: I’m usually at Fort Benning, so that would be best.

Doctor: Got it. Thank you. Is there anything else you feel I should know? Even minor symptoms or concerns you might think are unrelated?

Patient: No, I think that covers it right now. Just mainly wanted to make sure I’m healthy and catch anything early if possible.

Doctor: Absolutely. We’ll do a thorough check-up today, including some basic blood tests to rule out anemia or vitamin deficiencies, and check your blood pressure. If anything turns up, we’ll make a plan. And I want you to know that as a member of the armed forces, your health is a priority—both here in Georgia and wherever you’re stationed.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I really appreciate it.

Doctor: My pleasure, Susie. Let’s get started, and if you have any questions throughout, just let me know.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-41 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! So I’m juggling a ton of logistics at work this week and I’m looking for some tips to handle schedule conflicts between deliveries and pickups. Any tricks for someone in the cargo-and-freight biz?

Chatbot: Hi! Sounds like a busy time. When you’re coordinating multiple deliveries and pickups, using scheduling tools with real-time tracking can help a lot. Are you managing these tasks directly, or do you also handle the paperwork and admin for the shipments?

Person: Yeah, a little bit of both. I’m sort of the go-to in our office for updating shipment statuses and making sure our agents have the right pick-up orders. Wish my degree had prepped me more for this—plenty of excel, but not enough people-skills, you know?

Chatbot: That’s often the case! Having a background in higher education helps with organization, but on-the-job experience is important when dealing with people and tight deadlines. Do you use any particular software to ease the administrative load?

Person: We still use a lot of spreadsheets—old habits die hard! Some of the team is pushing to modernize, though. I’m thinking of suggesting a few apps for the boss. Speaking of which, do you know any programs that let you sort incoming and outgoing shipments effectively, especially for agents like us keeping Virginia’s warehouses running?

Chatbot: There are several logistics management systems that might help, such as CargoSmart or Transporeon. These platforms specialize in organizing shipment data, optimizing routes, and keeping everyone on the same page. Since you're in VA, you might want to check if local warehouses or logistics partners already use one of these tools for smoother collaboration.

Person: Thanks, that’s useful. I'll look into that. Out here in va, it's all about keeping things moving with minimum fuss, especially with all the rain making traffic nuts this spring. Plus, our main guy is on vacation back in Lahore, so as the resident “spreadsheet wizard,” everyone’s looking at me for answers. No pressure!

Chatbot: You're definitely carrying the load! Lahore, that’s a long way from VA. Sounds like you’re representing both your roots and your current home. Balancing those expectations, especially in a busy office, can be tricky. Have you faced any challenges as the point person during this period?

Person: Haha, you could say that again. I got dubbed the “pax-desc” on the team after handling that customs snag last year—a little inside joke since I’m the only one with family ties to Pk. Feels good though, you know? Especially since I didn't always think I'd be here juggling cargo docs and acting as a bridge in the office.

Chatbot: That’s great! Embracing both your heritage and your current responsibilities gives you a unique perspective. Did you always know you wanted to get into logistics, or did you discover the field after school?

Person: Not at all! My undergrad was in business admin—figured I'd end up in an office, but didn't expect to be moving crates and crunching route schedules. The admin side suits me though. Oh, by the way, do you recommend any time-management techniques for folks with my kind of background?

Chatbot: For someone who comes from a business admin program and is now managing multiple priorities, try the Eisenhower Matrix—categorize tasks by urgency and importance. Since your current workload mixes office support and the fast-paced world of freight, blocking your calendar in chunks for focused admin work versus on-the-fly problem solving could help.

Person: That’s a solid strategy. Dividing my hours between paperwork and what I call “dock diplomacy” usually works, but some days it’s wild. Must admit, when I first came to the US, I never pictured myself in the thick of fr8 ops. But now, after getting settled and earning my place, it feels… rewarding, you know?

Chatbot: That’s inspiring! Adjusting to life in a new country and building a career is no small feat. It’s impressive that you’ve established yourself, especially given the challenges of starting fresh.

Person: Appreciate that. I still remember the day they handed me the blue booklet at the courthouse—felt like a whole new world of opportunities. My folks back home never thought their son would be running cargo manifests stateside! Sometimes when things get tough, I look back and remind myself how far I’ve come since then.

Chatbot: That’s a great outlook. Reflecting on your journey can certainly help during stressful times. Have you been able to stay connected with family and friends from back home while managing your busy schedule?

Person: For sure. Video calls are a lifesaver. My cousins are always curious about what life’s like for a “pak expat” in the states. And I try to keep our traditions alive—at the warehouse potluck last month I brought homemade biryani, and the team demolished it! Maybe next time I'll share my secret recipe over email—just hope the old ahmed dot rana 84 at g-m-a-i-l gets the attachments!

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful! Keeping cultural traditions alive, even in a different country, is a great way to stay connected to your roots and share them with others. Your team is lucky to have you! With your admin know-how and unique perspective, you bring a lot to both your workplace and community. Is there anything specific you’d like help organizing or planning for the next big project?

Person: Actually, yes. We have a shipment backlog coming up. I want to set up a workflow board so everyone—from loaders to office staff—knows their tasks at a glance. Something low-tech for now, since not everyone’s up to speed on apps. Any tips for designing something simple but effective for a freight team?

Chatbot: Absolutely. Try creating a large whiteboard divided into columns for each stage: Incoming, In-Progress, Waiting, Completed. Use color-coded sticky notes for each shipment, and assign different colors for dock agents vs. office support. With a clear layout and regular updates at the start of each shift, it should boost efficiency and reduce mix-ups—especially helpful in a busy environment like yours.

Person: I love it! That’s exactly what I needed. I’ll put my admin hat on and get creative with those sticky notes. Thanks for your help—I feel better prepped to handle things. Maybe now I can avoid those late-night “why is this shipment still here?” emails!

Chatbot: You’re welcome. Sounds like you’re ready to streamline your workflow and keep operations moving smoothly. If you need more tips or want advice on specific tools as your team gets more comfortable with tech, just reach out. Good luck with the backlog—and enjoy sharing more of your heritage with your team!

Person: Will do, thanks! If only every problem could be solved as easily as this chat. I’ll let you know how it goes—until next time!

Chatbot: Looking forward to it! Have a great day and best wishes with your projects in VA!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-9 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Morning! I’ve been trying to make the most of my time at home lately and was wondering if you could give me ideas to spruce up my backyard deck. There’s still a chill in the air, but the snow’s finally starting to melt.

Chatbot: Good morning! I’d be happy to help. A backyard deck can be such a cozy spot, even when it’s still on the cold side. Would you like ideas for furniture, lighting, plants, or maybe all of the above? And do you prefer a space for relaxing, entertaining, or something more family-oriented?

Person: I’d say a bit of everything—my wife loves to have friends over for small gatherings, and we have a few family traditions that revolve around outdoor cooking once it gets warmer. Since my work meetings are all virtual for the time being, I’d love a nook where I could take calls outside too. Any ideas that can handle the, let’s say, unpredictable spring weather up north?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Creating a multi-purpose deck is both practical and fun. For weather-proofing, consider a pergola or retractable awning—something sturdy that can handle sudden rain or even light snow. Add some all-weather chairs and a table that can double as a workstation. String lights or lanterns can provide ambiance for gatherings. For grilling, a covered barbecue setup works well.

Since you mention family traditions, maybe carve out a little space for a fire pit—great for roasting marshmallows, even when it’s pretty chilly. Would you prefer a rustic look or something more modern?

Person: Rustic all the way. My folks actually carved some of our current chairs back on the islands, so I’d like to keep that vibe going. We usually break out the ukulele later in the evenings—my cousins and I were taught a few classic songs. Only thing missing is the ocean right outside, but I guess the Chugach mountains make up for it!

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful—music always adds such a special touch. Incorporating those island-crafted chairs will keep your roots front and center. Maybe add some planters with wildflowers or native greenery to bring a touch of the islands to your deck. Tiki-style torches or wooden carvings could also complement the rustic look. 

Do you like the sound of wind chimes, or are you looking for something that won’t distract from the strumming?

Person: Wind chimes would be great, actually. Reminds me of my grandmother—she had these made from shells hanging at her front window. I’ll see if we can track down something similar. And yeah, the plant idea’s solid. My wife’s got a green thumb, so that’d give her something to experiment with while the ground’s still frozen.

Chatbot: Sounds like you both appreciate natural touches and family traditions. Given the length of your seasons up there—and that beautiful mountain backdrop—think about using hardy, cold-resistant planters that can be brought in when it gets too frosty. Herbs like mint or rosemary do well in containers and come in handy for grilling, too.

For your work nook, maybe a fold-down table along the railing and an outlet nearby for your laptop? That way you can savor that mountain view between calls.

Person: That’s a winning idea. My “commute” is just from the kitchen to the deck nowadays, but it helps to have a space that feels different from the rest of the house. My boss jokes that I always sound more relaxed when I call in from outdoors. Probably helps that the ravens are the only ones making noise, besides maybe our neighbor’s snowblower.

Chatbot: A change of scenery (even within the same property!) can make a big difference, especially when you’re on virtual meetings. How do you handle staying productive when working from home so much? Any challenges or rituals you’ve developed?

Person: That’s been a learning curve, for sure. I try to stick to a schedule so I don’t just drift through the day. My wife will pop her head in and remind me if I’m getting too caught up in emails. We make a point of taking breaks together—sometimes with coffee on the porch if it’s not too cold. I used to fish weekends off the Turnagain, but with the season over I find myself going a little stir crazy. That’s partly why I’m so eager to get the deck set up.

Chatbot: It’s impressive that you’ve found ways to adapt—having someone to encourage you to take breaks must help. Shared routines can really anchor your days, especially in long winters. If you miss fishing, perhaps adding a few decorative touches (like painted stones or driftwood from the coast) could evoke those memories on your new deck.

Do you ever cook any of your catch outdoors when it’s the right season?

Person: All the time! My wife’s a magician with halibut. We invite over a couple of our friends—my best man from our wedding and his partner just moved nearby, so there’s always an excuse. We’ll fire up the grill, play some music, and swap stories until our youngest niece starts yawning.

Chatbot: That sounds like the perfect gathering—good company, homemade food, and music. Have you thought about adding a weatherproof storage bench? It’s a great place to stash outdoor games, extra blankets, or even grilling tools between those gatherings. 

What’s your favorite island dish to share with guests? Maybe I can suggest a way to adapt it for outdoor cooking.

Person: Luau-style chicken, definitely. My aunt taught us her secret marinade—ingredients are pretty simple but you’ve got to let it sit all night. We can’t dig an imu in the backyard here, not with the permafrost, so I just slow roast over the coals and improvise with banana leaves if we can get them shipped in. Poke’s a close second, but the fish market up here is hit or miss.

Chatbot: That marinade tradition sounds like a perfect way to blend home and heritage. Slow roasting over the coals keeps the spirit alive, even without the traditional pit. For banana leaves, you might find frozen ones at specialty markets, though it’s certainly not as easy as back on the islands!

If you’d like a new twist for your gatherings, consider small clay pots or foil packets for single servings—guests can help assemble their own, adding a fun, participatory element.

Person: That’s a great tip, thanks! It’s funny—whenever we bring out the traditional dishes, people always ask about our background. Sometimes I’ll pull out the old family album, show them pictures from my parents’ hometown, or even sing a couple songs in our language. Keeps the stories alive for the kids.

Chatbot: Storytelling is one of the most important ways to connect generations and preserve heritage. It must be meaningful sharing your culture in a place so different from where your family started. Do your kids or younger relatives enjoy learning the old songs and tales?

Person: I think so! My niece is all about the dances—she’s got way better rhythm than I ever did. And my nephew is obsessed with the history; he’s working on a school project tracing where our family came from. It means a lot that they’re curious, even while growing up so far north.

Chatbot: It’s heartwarming to see younger family members taking pride in their roots. Perhaps you could incorporate a display on your deck with photos, keepsakes, or even carvings as a mini “heritage corner.” It would be a special space for your family and a conversation starter with guests.

Person: I like that idea. My dad sent over some old tapa cloth that we could frame, and there’s a shell necklace my mother made for our wedding; it could use a better home than an old jewelry box. It’s funny how certain things just spark memories of back home, especially with winter hanging on up here.

Chatbot: Decorating with meaningful items not only enhances your space but also serves as a daily reminder of your family’s journey. Even with the differences in climate and landscape, you’re creating a home that embraces both worlds. 

If you ever want more ideas for outdoor gatherings or ways to connect with family heritage, I’m always here to brainstorm.

Person: Really appreciate it. Last question—do you have any creative ways to incorporate both mountain and ocean themes? Our clan’s always felt a strong pull to both, and it kind of matches our lives these days; remote, surrounded by snow half the year, but still finding little reminders of the island whenever we can.

Chatbot: What a beautiful sentiment. For a mountain-ocean fusion, look for natural elements: use river stones or pebbles around your fire pit, and incorporate driftwood or shells in planters or garden paths. Custom cushions or table linens with wave and peak patterns would symbolically tie both landscapes together. If you’re crafty, a mosaic that blends blues and greens—a nod to water and forest—could serve as a unique table centerpiece.

Perhaps find a wind chime or mobile that includes both materials—wood for the forests and shells for the ocean. That way, each breeze reminds you of both home and your new surroundings.

Person: That’s perfect, thank you. I’ll start sketching out a plan and see if my wife’s up for a craft day soon. She’s always up for a challenge, especially if it means more time spent outside as the days grow longer. With her creative ideas and my “handyman” skills—though she might call them stubbornness!—I think we’ll pull it off.

Chatbot: With a team like yours, I have no doubt. Best of luck setting up your deck oasis! Don’t hesitate to reach out again if you want more home or garden inspiration. Enjoy those mountain views and island memories—sounds like you have the best of both worlds.

Person: Thanks, I’ll report back once we get the first marshmallow roasted! And who knows, maybe by the time summer solstice rolls around, we won’t even need the fire pit some nights.

Chatbot: That would be wonderful. Until then, enjoy planning, and may your deck be filled with warmth, laughter, and music—no matter the weather.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-70 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I was hoping you could help me brainstorm a setup for my home office. I just moved into a high-rise on Water Street – you know, over by the riverwalk in Tampa. I’m in unit nineteen-zero-five if that makes any difference for space constraints.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I'd love to help you plan out your space! The views from Water St are supposed to be amazing. Can you tell me a bit about the room’s dimensions or any furniture you already have?

Person: It’s not a huge spot, but I’ve got enough space for a solid desk and maybe some extra shelves. I’ve mostly got the basics from what they gave us in housing, but I’d like to personalize it since I relocated recently for work with the military. You know how they just drop you wherever!

Chatbot: That makes sense! Since you’re military, functionality is probably key. Would you like your office to double as a relaxation spot, or is it strictly for business? Also, do you have any favorite color schemes or Chamoru artwork you’d want to include?

Person: Haha, you caught that. Yeah, I am Chamoru and I do have a few pieces that remind me of back home. I’d like to keep the vibe pretty chill. Practical, but something that feels a little tropical, island-style. Maybe some plants? Sorry, I ramble; I'm just excited. Office is mostly for work, though.

Chatbot: Plants are a great way to make the space feel inviting! If you want to lean into that island aesthetic, you could incorporate a few potted palms and maybe some woven textures for accessories. For your Chamoru artwork, a gallery wall above your desk might look amazing—especially with those high-rise views. As for organization, do you already have shelving or should we look at modular options?

Person: Right now I have standard-issue shelves, but they’re boring. I was actually thinking about putting up some floating shelves for my books and some military memorabilia. I started college before enlisting, so I still have a couple stacks of old textbooks I can’t part with yet—even though I didn’t finish my degree.

Chatbot: Floating shelves are a perfect choice, especially to display your keepsakes and those old textbooks. To add more of your personality, you could use shelf brackets made from natural wood or rattan. Do you want advice on arranging your memorabilia with your college books, or do you prefer a separate area for each?

Person: I think mixing them is cool. I’ve got my medals and some photos from back in Guam, and the books show that I at least survived a few years of college. I haven’t gotten around to finishing a degree with all the moving around, but maybe one day when things settle down. For now, I like the blend – a little education, a little action, you know?

Chatbot: That balance sounds great for motivation—showing your journey so far. Since you love your books and memorabilia together, you can organize by theme or mix them by timeline. How about lighting—do you prefer softer, warmer lights, or something brighter for your late-night shifts?

Person: I’d vote for warmer lights. I’m on crazy schedules sometimes, with drills and all, so I often wind up working on stuff around midnight. Having some soft lighting helps me wind down after a shift instead of feeling like I’m still in the barracks. Plus, my space faces east, so I catch plenty of sun in the morning.

Chatbot: Soft lighting is a great call, especially if your work hours are irregular. You could try LED strips under the shelves for a soft glow, and maybe add a small table lamp with a woven or natural-fiber shade for that island feel. How about seating—are you using the provided desk chair, or is comfort a big priority for you?

Person: The chair they gave me is okay, but after hours on the laptop, my back notices. Comfort matters! I don’t need anything fancy, but maybe something ergonomic and not too clunky, since the room’s not that big. Maybe in a dark blue or teal, to remind me of the water back home.

Chatbot: An ergonomic chair in a teal shade would both support you and fit your tropical-inspired theme! There are compact models that won’t dominate your space but still give great back support. Would you like some online shopping suggestions for furniture or decorations that ship to your zip?

Person: That would be amazing! If you find anything that delivers to 33602, let me know. My last place didn’t have many delivery options, but Tampa has been a lot better for that. Sometimes I wish I could have friends or family over, but most of them are back on Guam, and travel isn’t exactly cheap.

Chatbot: I completely understand; keeping those island connections can be tough from afar. Video calls and surround-yourself-with-home touches definitely help. I can recommend a few stores that deliver to your area, and maybe even some Chamorro artists who sell prints online. Would you like links for just furniture, or art and decor as well?

Person: Both, please! My taste is still evolving. Moving from Guam to Florida was wild, but Tampa’s got its own flavor. Plus, being single makes it easier to just move at the military’s whim, but sometimes I wish I had someone else’s style to help balance out my own.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re creating a space just for you, with touches from all your experiences. I’ll gather links for local and online shops that deliver to Water St, and some art retailers as well. Do you want plant delivery options, too?

Person: Definitely! Greenery helps fight the homesickness. And thanks for helping with all this. With my military shifts, college leftovers, and moving from Guam, I sometimes feel like my whole life is just boxes and paperwork, haha.

Chatbot: Glad I can help make your space feel more like home. Making a place your own, especially when you’re moving often, is important. If you ever need more organizational tips or even ideas on continuing your education remotely, I’m here for that too!

Person: I might take you up on the college advice one day. For now, I’ll focus on making nineteen-o-five feel like home. Thanks for helping me turn a government-issue apartment into something more “me.”

Chatbot: You’re welcome! I’ll send you those recommendations soon. And enjoy your amazing riverwalk views and new Tampa adventure!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-2 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Before we begin, I just want to make sure my details are correct; my date of birth is 25 October 1960, and I live here in Tennessee. I'm married, and my race is Laotian. Also, I am a male. 

Doctor: Thanks for confirming your information. Good morning to you as well! How can I help you today?

Patient: Lately, I’ve been feeling more sluggish than usual—just tired a lot, sometimes short of breath. I’m worried because I haven’t had these symptoms before. I wanted to get a check-up, just to be safe.

Doctor: That’s absolutely understandable. Since you’re experiencing fatigue and some shortness of breath, I’ll ask you a few questions to help us narrow things down. How long have these symptoms been happening?

Patient: Around two, maybe three weeks? It’s just gradually crept up. I noticed it mostly when I go for my walks with my wife after dinner. I get winded more easily.

Doctor: Besides the tiredness and getting winded more easily, have you noticed any other changes? For example, any chest pains, dizziness, unexplained weight changes, fever, or anything else unusual?

Patient: No chest pains or fever. I haven’t lost or gained much weight. Occasionally, I feel a little dizzy if I get up too quickly, but I thought that might just be age.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. And thank you for mentioning your age. You’re 63, correct, based on your date of birth of 25 October 1960?

Patient: Yes, that’s right.

Doctor: Have you had any history of heart or lung problems in the past? Any chronic illnesses, high blood pressure, diabetes, or high cholesterol?

Patient: Not really. Blood pressure has always been normal, and cholesterol was a little high a few years back, but I changed my diet and it came down. No diabetes. My wife and I try to eat healthy most days.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Being proactive with your health is very important, especially since you’re married and have someone you can enjoy life with and share routines like walking. Are you currently taking any medications or supplements regularly?

Patient: No prescription meds. I take a daily multivitamin, and every now and then, I’ll have Tylenol if I get a headache.

Doctor: Do you smoke or have you ever smoked? Any alcohol use?

Patient: No, I’ve never smoked. As for alcohol, just a glass of wine here and there, usually at family gatherings or celebrations. Nothing frequent.

Doctor: Great. Now, you mentioned your race is Laotian—is there any family history of heart disease, diabetes, or other conditions that run in your family?

Patient: My father had diabetes later in life, but no heart issues. My brothers are healthy; my mother is still doing well back in Laos. I check in with my extended family often.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. It's important to look at all the risk factors. Can you tell me about your exercise routine? How often do you and your wife go for walks?

Patient: We walk together maybe four or five times a week, after dinner. Usually just around the neighborhood for about 30 minutes. On the weekends, if the weather is nice here in Tennessee, we’ll try to go to the park.

Doctor: That sounds like an excellent routine. Just a few more questions: How are you sleeping? Any trouble falling or staying asleep?

Patient: Sleep’s not great lately. I wake up once or twice a night, but I can usually get back to sleep. Maybe that’s part of the tired feeling.

Doctor: It's possible. Any major stressors at home or work recently?

Patient: Not really. I retired last year, so it’s just me and my wife at home. We do have grandkids visiting now and then, but they’re a joy, not a stress.

Doctor: Retirement is a big transition, but it's wonderful to hear you're enjoying visits from your grandchildren. Have you noticed any changes in your mood with this fatigue—feelings of sadness, lack of motivation, or anxiety?

Patient: I don’t think so. I still enjoy hobbies, gardening, and cooking. If anything, I wish I had more energy for them.

Doctor: Got it. So, to sum up: fatigue and mild shortness of breath over the last few weeks, no major past illnesses, and no troubling associated symptoms so far. Given your age and family history, and since you’re active, we'll do a basic physical exam and order some blood work—just to check your thyroid, blood count, and a few other things. Does that sound good?

Patient: Yes, that’s what I was hoping for. Also, if there’s any charge, you can use my credit card number: 5569985435346246. I've given it before, but please let me know if you need it again.

Doctor: Thank you for providing your card number. We'll process any test payments through that—rest assured, we handle financial information securely. Now, before we wrap up—any other questions or concerns? Maybe something your wife or family has noticed that you haven't mentioned?

Patient: No, I think that covers everything. My wife just told me to make sure to bring up how tired I’ve been, and to check if maybe I’m missing something in my diet.

Doctor: Absolutely, we’ll check your iron and vitamin levels too. I’ll let you know as soon as the results come in. In the meantime, keep up your walking, and if you notice any chest pain, severe dizziness, or anything unusual, call us straight away.

Patient: Will do, thank you. And just confirming again, my date of birth: 25 October 1960, I’m married, race is Laotian, male, and I live here in Tennessee.

Doctor: All noted and up to date. I’ll see you again soon with your results. Take care!

Patient: Thanks, doctor. Have a good day.

Doctor: You too.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_65 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Performing rights

Performing rights are the right to perform music in public. It is part of copyright law and demands payment to the music's composer/lyricist and publisher (with the royalties generally split 50/50 between the two). Performances are considered "public" if they take place in a public place and the audience is outside of a normal circle of friends and family, including concerts nightclubs, restaurants etc. Public performance also includes broadcast and cable television, radio, and any other transmitted performance of a live song.

Permission to publicly perform a song must be obtained from the copyright holder or a collective rights organization.

By region

United States 
In the United States, broadcasters can pay for their use of music in one of two ways: they can obtain permission/license directly from the music's copyright owner (usually the publisher), or they can obtain a license from ASCAP, BMI, SESAC to use all of the music in their repertoires. ASCAP, BMI and SESAC are the three performing rights societies in the U.S. and once they receive payment from the broadcasters they are responsible for compensating the music authors and publisher.

"Perform the copyrighted work" 
The primary provisions governing the performing rights of the copyright owner are given under subsections 4 and 6 of § 106 of the U.S. Copyright Act. S.106 lists the exclusive rights held by the owner of copyright and subsections 4, 6 lists out the specific protected works that the owner can publicly perform. Subsection 6 was added in 1996 in order to allow owners of sound recordings the exclusive right to perform their work publicly. Before 1996, the owners of copyright in sound recordings did not enjoy any rights of public performance but after the amendment a limited right of public performance by means of a digital audio transmission was granted to sound recordings.

§101 of the Act explains that a work is performed when the work is recited, rendered, played, danced, or acted, either directly or by means of any device or process. The definition gets broader in the case of a motion picture or other audiovisual work where a work is performed when its images are shown in any sequence or when the sounds accompanying the work are audible. Due to the very broad definition of "perform" virtually every rendition of the copyrighted work would constitute a performance. In addition to the capricious definition, performances of musical compositions and the underlying sound recordings must be noted separately. Each time a rendition of a musical work is performed, the sound recording embodying that rendition is also performed, except of course when the musical work was first recorded. The reason to differentiate between the musical performance and the sound recording is that the copyrights may well be held by different parties and thus be governed by different rules.

To restrict this very wide right, only copyright owners have the right to perform their work publicly, but private performances are exempt from infringement. Though not providing a specific definition of "public" §101 of the Act defines public performance in two ways:
 Public Place Clause  This approach is based on the intuitive meaning of the word 'public'. Under §101, is performance is public when it is made to a gathering of a substantial number of people who are outside the performer's circle of family and friends. So, a restaurant playing a song on its radio, which can be heard by the patrons eating food, would constitute a public performance.
 Transmission Clause  A performance is also public when it is transmitted or communicated through any device or process to members of the public regardless of whether the public in question receive the performance in a single place and time, i.e., a transmission received by the public separately and individually would also constitute a public performance. Thus, a radio station transmitting a protected work through airwaves or analog waves or cable...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_233 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Gas–oil separation plant

In the upstream oil industry, a gas–oil separation plant (GOSP) is temporary or permanent facilities that separate wellhead fluids into constituent vapor (gas) and liquid (oil and produced water) components.

Temporary plant
Temporary gas–oil separation facilities are associated with newly drilled or newly sidetracked wells where the production potential of the well is being assessed. The plant, comprising a test separator vessel, is connected to the wellhead after the choke valve. The separator allows the fluids to separate by gravity into its component phases: solids such as sand (the densest phase) settle to the bottom of the separator, then produced water and oil which are drawn separately from the base of the separator, and vapor or gas (the lightest phase) separates to the top of the separator vessel from where it is withdrawn. Each of the three fluid phases is metered to determine the relative flow-rates of the components and production potential of the well. In temporary facilities the vapor is generally flared; produced water is disposed of overboard after treatment to reduce its oil content to statutory levels; and the crude oil phase may be diverted to tote tanks for removal and treatment onshore. Alternatively, if the temporary GOSP plant is associated with a permanent production facility, the oil phase may be treated in the installation's permanent gas–oil separation plant.

Permanent plant
Permanent gas–oil separation plant is associated with permanent offshore production facilities. For a full description of such a plant, see Oil production plant.

A gas–oil–and–water separator is called a 3-phase separator.

The gas and oil or condensate are pumped through designated pipelines, while the sand and other solids are washed from the separator and disposed of overboard.

Reasons for processing

Multi-phase production
Water need not be separated, and a single liquid (oil and water) phase produced together with a separate gas phase. Chemicals are added so that the crude and water emulsify. This process is then reversed at the storage and processing facility by adding demulsifiers that make the water separate out, and is drawn from the bottom of the tank.

After storage, the crude oil can be sold to refineries, which produce fuels, chemicals, and energy products.

Pressure
The well fluids at the wellhead are at high pressure. Production pressures of greater than  are not uncommon, but typically are lower than this. The high pressure is reduced at the choke valve to typically 7 to 30 bar at the separator, although the first stage separator could operate at higher pressure c. 250 bar. Modern oil recovery practice may place a hydro-cyclone to replace the temporary GOSP, allowing the water to be removed immediately and re-injected into the reservoir. The hydro-cyclone will vary the flows according to the water content and can also separate condensate from the gas where separate storage and export can be provided for the products close to the production well (e.g. on offshore platforms).

Contaminants
Crude oil leaving the well may contain quantities of sulfur (e.g. hydrogen sulfide and thiols) and/or carbon dioxide, and is known as "sour" crude. The gas–oil separator will typically partition the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide preferentially into the vapor or gas phase, where it may be further treated. The most usual "crude sweetening packages" use amines to remove the sulfur and CO2 content. Crude that contains water is called "wet", and the water can then be bound in an emulsion in the crude to allow pumping through a pipeline. The crude is processed and treated to make it acceptable for the entry and transportation specification of the pipeline, before it can be transported to a refinery for processing.

Phase separation
It is often appropriate to separate gases and liquids for separate processing. This also involves the separation of oily and water liquid phases.

Gas recovery
In the past, and in some places...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_208 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Biological activity

In pharmacology, biological activity or pharmacological activity describes the beneficial or adverse effects of a drug on living matter. When a drug is a complex chemical mixture, this activity is exerted by the substance's active ingredient or pharmacophore but can be modified by the other constituents. Among the various properties of chemical compounds, pharmacological/biological activity plays a crucial role since it suggests uses of the compounds in the medical applications. However, chemical compounds may show some adverse and toxic effects which may prevent their use in medical practice.

Biological activity is usually measured by a bioassay and the activity is generally dosage-dependent, which is investigated via dose-response curves.  Further, it is common to have effects ranging from beneficial to adverse for one substance when going from low to high doses. Activity depends critically on fulfillment of the ADME criteria. To be an effective drug, a compound not only must be active against a target, but also possess the appropriate ADME (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, and Excretion) properties necessary to make it suitable for use as a drug. Because of the costs of the measurement, biological activities are often predicted with computational methods, so-called QSAR models. 

Bioactivity is a key property that promotes osseointegration for bonding and better stability of dental implants. Bioglass coatings represent high surface area and reactivity leading to an effective interaction of the coating material and surrounding bone tissues. In the biological environment, the formation of a layer of carbonated hydroxyapatite (CHA) initiates bonding to the bone tissues. The bioglass surface coating undergoes leaching/exchange of ions, dissolution of glass, and formation of the HA layer that promotes cellular response of tissues. The high specific surface area of bioactive glasses is likely to induce quicker solubility of the material, availability of ions in the surrounding area, and enhanced protein adsorption ability. These factors altogether contribute toward the bioactivity of bioglass coatings. In addition, tissue mineralization (bone, teeth) is promoted while tissue forming cells are in direct contact with bioglass materials.

Whereas a material is considered bioactive if it has interaction with or effect on any cell tissue in the human body, pharmacological activity is usually taken to describe beneficial effects, i.e. the effects of drug candidates as well as a substance's toxicity.

In the study of biomineralisation, bioactivity is often meant to mean the formation of calcium phosphate deposits on the surface of objects placed in simulated body fluid, a buffer solution with ion content similar to blood.

See also
 Chemical property
 Chemical structure
 Lipinski's rule of five, describing molecular properties of drugs
 Molecular property
 Physical property
 QSAR, quantitative structure-activity relationship

References

Pharmacodynamics
Bioactivity
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-56 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, can you help me figure out a good way to balance my work schedule? Being in uniform and on duty most days of the week gets pretty hectic, and I want to make sure I’m not neglecting my personal life—especially since I’m married now.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’d be happy to help! Maintaining a healthy work-life balance can be tricky, especially with the kind of schedule someone in the armed forces has. How do you and your spouse tend to spend your free time together?

Person: Well, my spouse and I try to take advantage of any downtime. We love getting out to Flathead Lake or heading toward Glacier Park if I’ve got a full weekend off from base duties. She’s really into hiking too, so it helps that we’re stationed in MT and there’s so much nature around.

Chatbot: That sounds amazing! Montana’s definitely one of the best places for outdoor enthusiasts. Do you find that outdoor time together helps you both reconnect away from the demands of military life?

Person: For sure. Once I get signed out from the base, whether it’s for a few hours or a proper weekend, we head outside as much as we can. It really breaks up the grind. Plus, after tackling my thesis and all those years chipping away at my master’s program, it’s nice not to be stuck indoors all day.

Chatbot: Congratulations on your master’s, by the way! What field did you focus on? And do you find yourself using those skills with your current role?

Person: Thanks! My master’s is in organizational leadership. It’s come in handy with team management and wrangling logistics at my post. Most folks think of the military as just physical demands, but honestly, a lot of it is coordinating people and resources. The academic side really paid off.

Chatbot: That’s great to hear. It’s always interesting seeing academic knowledge applied in practical, high-stakes environments. Do you ever consider pursuing a teaching or training role, maybe later in your career?

Person: Funny you should mention that. I’ve been helping run leadership workshops for some of the newer recruits and junior officers. It’s rewarding to pass along practical experience, especially since I know what it’s like coming in with a unique perspective—not everyone in the service grew up in the States like I did. I was born across the pond and lived there for a bit before heading home with my folks.

Chatbot: That must have given you some valuable insights! Growing up outside the country and then returning must give you a broad perspective, both personally and professionally. How’s that shaped your approach to life in the service?

Person: It definitely opened my eyes early on. Different cultures and attitudes toward authority helped me see things from all angles. And when you’re leading a squad, having that broadened view helps. I also feel a bit more adaptable, you know? Switching between time zones and languages as a kid, then getting tossed right into the military routine—makes day-to-day challenges here in Montana seem pretty manageable.

Chatbot: That adaptability sounds like a real asset, especially in your line of work. Since you mentioned being married, I’m curious—how do you both handle time apart if you get deployed or pulled away on assignment?

Person: Deployment schedules are always tough, but we do our best. My partner’s actually learned to deal with the patchy cell service, and we schedule video calls whenever I can get a stable connection. Plus, we both make sure to shoot each other a quick email if that’s all that’s possible. For instance, she’ll ping me at montana.masters74 at the big G when I’m hard to reach by phone. It’s not perfect, but it works.

Chatbot: Good communication is essential, especially over long distances. Have you picked up any favorite tools or apps to keep in touch outside of email, or is it mostly just about finding whatever works in the moment?

Person: We stick with the basics—a lot of WhatsApp and Signal, and the occasional letter if I’m somewhere remote. But G-mail is our safe fallback. I’ve had the same address since grad school days when I was working on group projects late into the night!

Chatbot: Sounds like you’ve built a great system. Managing relationships and keeping your personal life strong can really help with the stress that comes with being in uniform. Outside of work and hiking, do you and your spouse have any shared hobbies or regular date nights you like to keep up with?

Person: With the winter up here, we got into board games and cooking experiments. Weeknights get pretty quiet in Big Sky country, so we’ll download new recipes or set up a “Montana movie night.” You’d be surprised how relaxing it is watching old westerns curled up by the wood stove. 

Chatbot: That sounds cozy! Have you made any friends locally, maybe among other service members or folks in town?

Person: Oh definitely. The local base is a tight-knit community, and a few of us who’ve earned our master’s degrees will meet up for trivia night in Missoula. There’s a lot of camaraderie here—people look out for one another, which really helps being far from where I spent my earliest years.

Chatbot: Having that support network is so important. Before we wrap up, do you have any particular goals you’re working towards, either career-wise or personally?

Person: I’m aiming for a promotion in the next advancement cycle, so I’m prepping my leadership portfolio and working with my supervisor on next steps. Personally, my partner and I are saving for a little cabin up by Whitefish. We figure if we’re putting down roots in MT, might as well go full local and invest in something we can enjoy together, long after I hang up the uniform.

Chatbot: That’s an exciting plan! With your leadership skills, commitment, and diverse background, I have no doubt you’ll reach those goals. If you ever want help brainstorming gift ideas for your spouse or sorting through cabin listings in Montana, you know where to find me!

Person: I’ll definitely take you up on that—thanks for the tips and for listening. It’s nice to have someone to talk things over with, even if it’s through a screen!

Chatbot: Anytime! Take care, and best of luck with both your military career and life up in Big Sky country.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-77 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, good morning. My name is Mark, and I'm here for my annual check-up. Here’s my information in case you need it — my date of birth is 21 January 1986.

Doctor: Good morning, Mark! Thank you for sharing that. I see your birthday is January 21st, 1986. Could you also confirm your marital status for me?

Patient: Sure, I am married.

Doctor: Thank you. And just to confirm, are you still working in the same occupation as last year?

Patient: Yes, I am. I work in transportation and material moving occupations. Specifically, I’m a hand packer and packager. It’s mostly at the warehouse—lifting, moving packages, labeling, that sort of thing.

Doctor: All right. That sounds like physically demanding work. Before we get started, could you also verify the state you currently reside in?

Patient: I live in Illinois, in the Springfield area.

Doctor: Great. Thank you for confirming that. Now, your medical record shows you as male. Is that correct?

Patient: Yes, that’s correct. My sex is male.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you, Mark. Lastly, could you confirm your email address in case we need to send you any follow-up information or results?

Patient: Of course. My email is m.packers86@gmail.com.

Doctor: Thank you very much, Mark. Now, let’s talk about how you’ve been feeling lately. Any new symptoms, or just here for the routine exam today?

Patient: Mostly a routine check-up, but to be honest, I’ve been having some lower back pain, especially after long shifts at work. Packing and moving boxes all day can be tough. It’s been persistent for about three weeks now.

Doctor: I see. Lower back pain in someone working as a hand packager in transportation is not uncommon given the repetitive lifting and twisting. Can you describe the pain? Is it sharp, dull, does it radiate anywhere?

Patient: It’s usually a dull ache, but sometimes after a particularly heavy day it can get sharper. It doesn’t really radiate down my legs, it just stays in the lower back.

Doctor: Has anything helped relieve it? For example, rest, heat, over-the-counter medication?

Patient: Lying down when I get home helps a bit, and sometimes I use a heating pad. Tylenol takes the edge off but the pain always comes back the next day.

Doctor: Understood. Have you had any numbness, tingling, or weakness in your legs? Or any trouble with bowel or bladder control?

Patient: No to all of those, thankfully.

Doctor: That’s good news. It sounds like this could be a muscular strain from your physically demanding job. With your occupation as a packer and packager, it’s important to pay attention to lifting techniques and take breaks when possible. Do workplace ergonomics get reviewed often for your team?

Patient: It’s mostly up to us to follow the manual handling guidelines, but with deadlines, sometimes we rush and forget the proper way.

Doctor: I understand. I’ll give you an information sheet on safe lifting, and some exercises you can do to strengthen your back and core muscles. Would you like me to email that to you at m.packers86@gmail.com?

Patient: Yes, that would be perfect.

Doctor: Great. I’ll send it today. Are you experiencing any other symptoms, such as shortness of breath, chest pain, or changes in your sleep?

Patient: No chest pain or breathing issues. Just a bit more tired lately, I guess. My wife says I get a bit irritable after long workdays and don’t sleep as well, but I figure that’s just part of the job.

Doctor: Between shift work and physical labor, it’s understandable. How many hours per shift are you working, on average?

Patient: Usually nine to ten hours, with overtime sometimes. Standing, lifting, and packaging through most of it.

Doctor: That’s quite a load. About your sleep, do you have trouble falling asleep or staying asleep? Any snoring or waking up not feeling refreshed?

Patient: I can fall asleep fine once I get home and settle down, but I wake up a lot during the night. My wife says I snore pretty loudly, too.

Doctor: Snoring and interrupted sleep can sometimes indicate sleep apnea, especially if you’re fatigued during the day. I’ll send you a brief screening questionnaire by email, again to m.packers86@gmail.com. If it seems likely, we can arrange a sleep study.

Patient: That sounds good. Is there anything else you recommend?

Doctor: Besides the back exercises and checking into your sleep, I’d encourage staying hydrated during shifts, and making time to stretch. Because your work as a hand packager is active, your cardiovascular health is likely quite good, but do let us know if you notice any swelling in the legs, or unexpected pain.

Patient: I will do that. Also, just to remind you, I am married, so my wife keeps a pretty close eye on my health—she’ll make sure I do those stretches!

Doctor: It’s always helpful to have support at home. Any family history of heart disease, diabetes, or other conditions we should update?

Patient: My father had high blood pressure, and my mom has type 2 diabetes. No major illnesses in my siblings. I keep regular check-ups because of their history.

Doctor: That’s prudent, Mark. And just to confirm for your records, your date of birth is still 21 January 1986, you reside in Illinois, your occupation is hand packer and packager in transportation and material moving, your marital status is married, sex is male, and your email is m.packers86@gmail.com. Correct?

Patient: All of that is correct.

Doctor: Excellent. I’ll send you those information sheets and the sleep screening. If anything changes or you have additional concerns, feel free to email or call. Thank you for coming in today, Mark.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. I appreciate your help. I’ll keep an eye on my back and wait for your email.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-80 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I’ve got some extra time on my hands lately—been in between gigs so trying to keep busy. Can you help me brainstorm some ways to stay motivated, especially when you’re not clocking in anywhere?

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’d be glad to help! Having unstructured time presents a great opportunity to focus on personal projects or hobbies. Have you thought about setting small daily goals or learning something new? What sort of things do you enjoy doing, or what’s your background like? Maybe we can tailor some ideas to your experience.

Person: Yeah, that makes sense. I’ve always been more of a hands-on type. My last job was working on machines—keeping stuff up and running, fixing things when they break down. I did maintenance for a few years, mostly with factory equipment. I also should admit I’m not big on sitting through more school—my formal schooling ended after I got my high school paper.

Chatbot: Got it—you’ve got some real-world skills with machinery and tools, and you’re more of a doer than a classroom learner. That’s helpful! Since you’re not working at the moment, have you thought about working on personal home improvement projects, or maybe taking apart and restoring something mechanical just for fun? Sometimes volunteering with local orgs can be a good way to stay active too. Do you have access to tools or a workspace at home?

Person: We’ve got a decent garage, and I’ve collected some stuff over the years—sockets, wrenches, you name it. My place is in OR, not far from Eugene, so rain ends up keeping me inside a lot, but that’s what the garage is for! Actually, I was thinking of tinkering with an old lawnmower that’s been sitting around. 

Chatbot: That sounds like a perfect project! Restoring gear or machinery can be both productive and satisfying. It can also be a good portfolio addition if you’re looking to show off your talents for future job leads. Speaking of which, do you want any tips on searching for maintenance positions or updating your resume for repair/installation roles?

Person: Yeah, that’d be super helpful. Last time, I kinda just heard through friends about openings, but maybe I should get a bit more formal. I always list my experience as a machinery maintenance worker on paperwork, but I don’t always know how to phrase the stuff I did, like troubleshooting and preventive maintenance. Honestly, half the time I feel like I’m explaining it to my neighbor instead of a hiring manager.

Chatbot: A lot of folks feel that way! Translating hands-on know-how into “resume speak” helps employers see your value. You could describe tasks like, “Diagnosed mechanical failures and implemented efficient solutions to minimize downtime,” or “Performed routine and emergency repairs on industrial equipment to maintain production flow.” We can work together to expand on your skills and experiences if you want!

Person: That’d be great, thanks. Never been the best at words—that’s part of why I did what I did, you know? I got my 12th-grade diploma, but writing resumes wasn't covered much back in the day. Got any thoughts on how to kick off a cover letter too?

Chatbot: Definitely! Starting off strong is important. For your background, you can highlight your years of hands-on experience and reliability. For example: “As a dedicated machinery maintenance professional with over X years of experience ensuring equipment performance, I am committed to providing timely and effective service to keep operations running smoothly.” Want me to help draft a full template for you?

Person: Sure, that’d save me a ton of time. I go by Mike, by the way—my friends call me Mr. Fix-it when someone’s washer breaks down. And if you need an email for any of these job boards, I use mike.r.henderson72@gmail.com for most of my stuff.

Chatbot: Nice to meet you, Mike! I’ll keep that in mind if you want ideas on how to keep your inbox organized for job hunting. Here’s a quick draft for a cover letter opener:

Dear Hiring Manager,

I am writing to express my interest in the Maintenance Worker position listed on your website. With hands-on experience in installation and repair of industrial machinery, and a proven record of maintaining safe and efficient operations, I am confident in my ability to contribute to your team...

Would you like me to keep going with this template? Also, have you considered any certifications like OSHA safety or HVAC that could stack up your credentials even more?

Person: That’s a solid start! Safety was a big part of my last routine, and I always made sure to do things by the book. I wouldn’t mind looking into a safety cert if there’s a good online option. Also, with things being quiet right now, I’ve promised myself I’ll spend more time keeping my tools organized, maybe label everything better. The little victories, you know?

Chatbot: Absolutely—the small accomplishments add up, and organizing your tools can make future jobs easier. For safety training, some with a regular high school diploma go for online OSHA-10 or OSHA-30 General Industry courses, which show you know your stuff when it comes to safe work environments. They’re recognized in OR and across the country.

Person: That’s exactly what I was thinking, too. Never hurts to have something official, right? I’ll check out those OSHA courses. And hey, thanks for turning my rambling into something more useful—it’s been a big help. I’m going to take a crack at your resume ideas, poke around some job boards, and if you got suggestions on where to look for jobs specific to Oregon or machinery gigs, I’m all ears.

Chatbot: You’re welcome, Mike! Great attitude. For Oregon-specific opportunities, check out sites like oregonjobdepartment.org, Indeed, and Craigslist under skilled trades. Local temp agencies sometimes have contracts for machinery maintenance as well. Feel free to send over any drafts for feedback, and if you want help crafting messages or organizing your search, just reach out on your gmail anytime!

Person: Will do! And thanks again—I might just start with fixing up that old mower this weekend, maybe finally get it purring again.

Chatbot: That’s fantastic! Wishing you lots of luck—both in your job search and in bringing that mower back to life. If you need advice along the way, I’m here for you. Stay motivated and keep those wrenches turning, Mr. Fix-it!

Person: Appreciate it, chatbot. I’ll check in again soon if I get stuck on anything.

Chatbot: Looking forward to it, Mike! Have a productive weekend and good luck!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-39 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there. Quick question for you—if I want to schedule a flight into Denver and then direct an arrival into the airspace there, what’s the best time to avoid the crazy traffic flow? I’m an airfield ops guy, so I geek out about this stuff.

Chatbot: Hello! That’s a great question. Denver International tends to have lower air traffic volumes mid-morning or later in the evening, usually between 10 a.m. and noon or after 7 p.m. Is there a particular day you have in mind, or is this more general curiosity from one aviation geek to another?

Person: I’m actually thinking about a Thursday two weeks out. My work always has me monitoring runway conditions and chatting with ATC, so timing’s pretty important. Also, any idea how current wind patterns affect operations during those recommended times?

Chatbot: For most Thursdays, mid-mornings still see less traffic. As for wind, Denver often has gusty crosswinds, particularly in the afternoon. That can cause delays with runway assignments. Did you want suggestions for alternate fields or holding patterns too? By the way, it's awesome to hear from someone with a real background in air traffic and airfield ops!

Person: Thanks! Yeah, I usually work on the ground, but sometimes I get roped into helping with tower comms. I go by Mr. Harlan at work—everyone cracks up about the old-school formality. Let’s talk turbulence. Got any tricks for telling newer pilots when to expect it near the approach?

Chatbot: For turbulence advisories, new pilots should pay special attention to pilot reports (PIREPs) and ATIS updates before entering the arrival corridor, especially near the foothills around Denver. Being proactive on the radio is also key. Out of curiosity, do you ever share your own tips with rookies at the field?

Person: All the time. It’s funny—I was born way outside the country, but growing up with two American parents meant I learned all the FAA lingo faster than local slang. It comes in handy out here in SD, you know? Airfields can get wild when the weather shifts at a moment’s notice.

Chatbot: That’s quite the background! It must’ve given you a unique perspective, blending international experience with good old-fashioned American regulations. In SD, especially, those weather shifts sneak up on you. Anything in particular you struggle with during those quick changes, or does your experience make it all second nature at this point?

Person: The hardest thing is training new hires, especially when the snow picks up at Rapid City Regional. We had a whiteout a month ago—the guy shadowing me nearly panicked! Staying calm is easier when you’ve never had to wrangle a spouse or wriggle out of kid duty. I’ve never been married, so after my shift, it’s just me and my old radio scanner.

Chatbot: Sounds like you can focus fully on work and have time to decompress afterward. That scanner must pick up a lot of interesting comms! Aside from aviation, do you have any favorite ways to wind down after a busy day at the field in South Dakota?

Person: I love driving my old truck out to Skyline Drive and catching sunsets over the city. Sometimes I’ll call up an old friend, dial their number right off my cell—easy since it’s got the Black Hills area code, six zero five-three nine four-two six one zero. Folks from out West always think that’s neat.

Chatbot: That sounds peaceful. There’s something about winding down with a view after work, especially in a place as scenic as SD. Ever think about switching to a different branch of transportation, or do you see yourself sticking with airport ops and control for years to come?

Person: Oh, I think I’m in it for the long haul. I’ve tried other gigs—helped move cargo at a yard once. But this job, controlling aircraft movement and keeping the airfield running smoothly, it’s where my head and heart line up. Maybe if the right opportunity comes, I’ll head to a bigger hub, but for now, Rapid City feels like home base.

Chatbot: That’s admirable dedication. Smaller airports rely on solid teams, and experienced folks like you keep things running safely. Do you notice many changes in technology or procedures lately in your line of work?

Person: There’s always something. More automation in the towers, newer runway lights—I train on all of it. I remember one tech update where the instructions were in British English because they thought I was a local from the overseas place my folks were stationed. It reminded me of how global this field is.

Chatbot: Aviation certainly brings together a variety of backgrounds and skills. With new systems coming in, do you find it easy to adapt, or do you prefer hands-on, traditional methods?

Person: I’ve always been a hands-on guy. I teach by doing, not just reading manuals. That probably comes from moving a lot as a kid, learning to adapt quick. Still, I keep the manuals close—never know when a system reset is coming.

Chatbot: Flexible and prepared—a great combination in your field. Are you involved in emergency planning or drills at the airport too?

Person: Yeah, I run the disaster simulations twice a year at the field here. Coordinating between fire, security, and air traffic is actually pretty fun. Even though I fly solo in life, I like building tight coordination at work.

Chatbot: Those simulations are essential. It’s great to hear you bring such focus to teamwork, even if you’re not bothered by flying solo outside the job. Any advice for others considering a career in airport operations or air traffic control?

Person: I’d tell them: be ready for anything, keep calm, and always have a backup plan—whether that’s a second runway, an alternate route, or even just having my six zero five area phone handy if systems drop. And have fun with radio chatter—it keeps things lively!

Chatbot: Fantastic advice! It’s clear your experience is an asset to your team and new hires alike. Thanks for sharing a look into your world—Rapid City and the skies above are in good hands.

Person: Appreciate it! If you ever need to call in for airfield trivia or snowstorm updates, you know which Mr. to look for in SD. 

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-13 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning. I’m here because I’ve been getting these headaches more frequently, and I’m starting to worry it might be more than just stress.

Doctor: Good morning. Thanks for coming in to talk about this. How often are you getting these headaches, and when did they first start?

Patient: It’s been almost every day for about three weeks now. They start in the afternoon, usually, sometimes after I’ve been sitting for a long while. They’re kind of throbbing around my temples and I get a bit nauseated.

Doctor: That sounds uncomfortable. Do you experience any changes in your vision, or see any flashing lights when you have these headaches?

Patient: No, nothing like that. My vision stays the same. It's more like I need to close my eyes and put my head down for a bit. I usually just sit in the living room and listen to some music when it comes on.

Doctor: Are you taking any medication for the pain? Or any other medication regularly?

Patient: I’ve just been using ibuprofen. I take two pills when it’s bad, but try not to use it every day. I don’t take any other regular prescriptions these days. I used to have meds for my blood pressure, but since last year, the doctor said my numbers are better, so I stopped that one.

Doctor: I see. Have you made any changes to your lifestyle recently? Diet, exercise, things like that?

Patient: It’s mostly the same. I still take walks around the park when the weather’s good, usually in the morning before everyone else is out. As for food, I’m not too adventurous. Still eating a lot of the foods I grew up with, rice, fish, vegetables. Sometimes a bit salty, but that’s how my mother and grandmother always made it.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. When you were in school, did you ever have problems with headaches like this?

Patient: Not really. Though I wasn’t in school for that long—I left before my senior year, actually. Family needed me at home. Never had headaches back then, not that I remember. Came on more in recent years.

Doctor: Okay. Aside from the headaches, have you noticed any other new symptoms? Balance issues, weakness, confusion, numbness?

Patient: No, nothing like that. I don’t get dizzy or lose my balance. Sometimes I get tired, but with everything that’s happened, I suppose that's normal.

Doctor: When you say 'everything,' do you mean anything specific? Life changes or stressors?

Patient: Well, it's been tough since my partner passed away last fall. We were together many years… The house has been awfully quiet, and at times it feels like I’m still waiting to hear her call from the kitchen, you know? The mornings are hardest, but the afternoons... that’s when these headaches seem to come.

Doctor: I’m so sorry for your loss. Have you been able to talk with anyone about this grieving process, maybe friends or a counselor?

Patient: Mostly I’ve been keeping to myself. I have some friends from the community center, and we’ll sometimes have tea or do an activity, but it’s not the same as talking with family. My only child moved to the mainland years back for work, so it gets lonely. There’s just a small group left here from back when I was a kid.

Doctor: Social connection is important for both your emotional and physical health. If you like, I can connect you with a support group for people who have lost a loved one.

Patient: That could be good, thank you. I suppose it’s hard to adjust after so long together. It’s been over a year, but sometimes I still forget she’s not about to come home.

Doctor: That’s completely understandable. Grief doesn’t follow a set timeline. Are you sleeping okay?

Patient: I try. Some nights I can’t get off to sleep until late, so I’ll watch those old soap operas my mom liked—still have the same actors after all these years! So, a lot of late nights.

Doctor: And you mentioned you’re spending more time at home lately. Has your daily routine changed much otherwise?

Patient: Oh, not in a big way. These days, there isn’t much reason to go far. I do my groceries mostly on Thursdays, since the little store gets in fresh veggies from back east. No more worries about missing work or anything—I haven’t had a job in some time, not since my partner took ill.

Doctor: Understood. So you’re able to manage your daily activities and get out to the shops when you need to.

Patient: Yes, though sometimes I wish I still had my old schedule. I miss being busy, but I don’t have anyone to look after now, and it just doesn’t feel right going back, you know?

Doctor: Change like that can take time to adjust to. Have you ever discussed your headaches with any other health care providers before?

Patient: No, this is my first time talking about it. I tried some herbal teas, the ones my cousin sent from the home islands, but they didn’t do much for the pain.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. Have you or your family ever had any health conditions that run in the family? High blood pressure, diabetes, anything like that?

Patient: Well, pretty much everyone in my family has high blood pressure, except my youngest brother, who still lives on the island. Diabetes is less common, but my uncle did have it after he turned sixty.

Doctor: You mentioned “the home islands.” Do you get to visit your family there often?

Patient: Not lately. It’s hard with the flights and everything. Last time I made the trip back was for one of the big festivals; it’s always wonderful to see the parades and the dancers in their traditional clothes. There's a real sense of belonging when I see the lottery numbers posted at the corner store in both English and Chamorro—it reminds me where I come from.

Doctor: That sounds beautiful. I’ve never visited that region myself, but I’ve read that some of the food and traditions have been passed down for generations.

Patient: Absolutely. Even here, whenever I cook kelaguen or bring out the titiyas, folks around the block can tell where the recipe came from. We all have our ways of holding onto home, especially in a place so far from the ocean.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that with me. Aside from missing family, has anything else been a source of stress recently?

Patient: Sometimes I get letters I don’t quite understand—insurance stuff, or those notices about social security. That gets me worried I missed something important. I manage, though, with help sometimes from my church friend who used to be a secretary before she retired. She makes sense of forms in no time.

Doctor: It’s good you have someone to help. You mentioned not working recently, but were you ever in the workforce before, or mostly staying home?

Patient: I worked when I was younger, but not in a formal job. Mostly helped out neighbors, watched their children, and then took care of my own family. Once my partner fell ill, I stayed home for a long time. I don’t think I’d fit right into an office these days—too rusty, and the folks there all have degrees or, at the least, finished high school, which I never did. Dropped out in eleventh grade, and life just carried me along.

Doctor: Education isn’t everything. You have a lot of experience that’s just as valuable. I’m glad you’ve found ways to stay active. Do you use any technology to stay in touch with family or keep track of your health?

Patient: My granddaughter got me a tablet last Christmas, but I mostly use it to look at her photos. I prefer talking on the phone, really. My hands aren’t as quick with typing out those newfangled messages.

Doctor: Do you find you’re getting enough physical activity? Any walks or light exercise at home?

Patient: I do some stretching every morning, more so since I started feeling more stiff in my joints. The weather here is humid, just like on the island, so on days it’s too much, I stay inside and do small chores.

Doctor: That sounds good. Light activity helps keep you limber. Do the headaches ever come on during or after your walks, or only while inside?

Patient: Mostly when I’m inside. It’s rare they start when I’m out. I remember my mother and grandmother both saying fresh air helps. Maybe that’s true. And it’s nice to say hello to the other folks from church—sometimes we slip in a few words of Tagalog or Ilocano if no one’s listening. Reminds me of the old stories about our ancestor from Luzon coming over on the boats.

Doctor: That's a wonderful tradition. Do you ever feel down or lose interest in things you once enjoyed?

Patient: Some days, yes. Since I lost my partner, the house feels empty and I can’t bring myself to cook big meals or listen to the music we used to dance to. The community events help a bit. I think coming here and talking feels good, too.

Doctor: I’m really glad you came in today. Losing someone so close impacts your mental health as well. If you’d ever like to talk to someone about the loss, I can refer you.

Patient: Thank you, I appreciate it. I know my faith encourages us to find comfort together, and I do join the church gatherings when I can. But there are still moments that just hit you out of nowhere.

Doctor: Of course. That’s completely normal in the grieving process. Since you’re not taking other prescription medications, and the headaches haven’t affected your vision or balance, I’d recommend you continue using ibuprofen as needed, but no more than the recommended dosage. I’d also suggest keeping a “headache diary:” just a note each day about when the pain starts, how long it lasts, and what might have set it off.

Patient: I can do that. Should I come back if it doesn’t get better?

Doctor: Yes, please let us know if there’s any change—especially if the pain gets much worse, if you do see flashing lights, or if you get weakness in your arms or legs. Otherwise, let's see you in two weeks to review your diary and see if we need to investigate further.

Patient: That makes sense. Sometimes I feel a bit old-fashioned not using computers like everyone else, but I can manage a notebook and pen just fine.

Doctor: That's perfect. Everyone has their way of tracking things. Do you have any other questions before we finish up today?

Patient: Just one: I sometimes worry I’m not eating the right things, especially since I’m cooking for one now. Any advice?

Doctor: Keeping your diet as balanced as possible is important. Try to include lots of leafy greens and fresh fruits; fish is excellent. If some of your favorite traditional dishes are salty, maybe reduce the added salt a bit. Cooking at home like you’ve always done is a great way to make sure you’re eating well.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I’ll try to make more of the steamed greens, just like my aunt used to. She always said it kept us healthy when we were living back near the sea—nothing like island vegetables.

Doctor: I look forward to hearing how you do. If you have any concerns between now and our next appointment, just give us a call.

Patient: I will. Thank you for listening. It’s nice to know someone’s there—sometimes it’s hard finding understanding so far from where I started.

Doctor: It’s my pleasure. You’re never alone in this. We’re here for you, every step of the way.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_76 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Environmental isotopes

The environmental isotopes are a subset of isotopes, both stable and radioactive, which are the object of isotope geochemistry. They are primarily used as tracers to see how things move around within the ocean-atmosphere system, within terrestrial biomes, within the Earth's surface, and between these broad domains.

Isotope geochemistry 

Chemical elements are defined by their number of protons, but the mass of the atom is determined by the number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus. Isotopes are atoms that are of a specific element, but have different numbers of neutrons and thus different mass numbers. The ratio between isotopes of an element varies slightly in the world, so in order to study isotopic ratio changes across the world, changes in isotope ratios are defined as deviations from a standard, multiplied by 1000. This unit is a "per mil". As a convention, the ratio is of the heavier isotope to the lower isotope.

 ‰

These variations in isotopes can occur through many types of fractionation. They are generally classified as mass independent fractionation and mass dependent fractionation. An example of a mass independent process is the fractionation of oxygen atoms in ozone. This is due to the kinetic isotope effect (KIE) and is caused by different isotope molecules reacting at different speeds. An example of a mass dependent process is the fractionation of water as it transitions from the liquid to gas phase. Water molecules with heavier isotopes (18O and 2H) tend to stay in the liquid phase as water molecules with lighter isotopes (16O and 1H) preferentially move to the gas phase.

Of the different isotopes that exist, one common classification is distinguishing radioactive isotopes from stable isotopes. Radioactive isotopes are isotopes that will decay into a different isotope. For example, 3H (tritium) is a radioactive isotope of hydrogen. It decays into 3He with a half-life of ~12.3 years. By comparison, stable isotopes do not undergo radioactive decay, and their fixed proportions are measured against exponentially decaying proportions of radioactive isotopes to determine the age of a substance. Radioactive isotopes are generally more useful on shorter timescales, such as investigating modern circulation of the ocean using 14C, while stable isotopes are generally more useful on longer timescales, such as investigating differences in river flow with stable strontium isotopes.

These isotopes are used as tracers to study various phenomena of interest. These tracers have a certain distribution spatially, and so scientists need to deconvolve the different processes that affect these tracer distributions. One way tracer distributions are set is by conservative mixing. In conservative mixing, the amount of the tracer is conserved. An example of this is mixing two water masses with different salinities. The salt from the saltier water mass moves to the less salty water mass, keeping the total amount of salinity constant. This way of mixing tracers is very important, giving a baseline of what value of a tracer one should expect. The value of a tracer as a point is expected to be an average value of the sources that flow into that region. Deviations from this are indicative of other processes. These can be called nonconservative mixing, where there are other processes that do not conserve the amount of tracer. An example of this is 𝛿14C. This mixes between water masses, but it also decays over time, reducing the amount of 14C in the region.

Commonly used isotopes 
The most used environmental isotopes are:

 deuterium
 tritium
 carbon-13
 carbon-14
 nitrogen-15
 oxygen-18
 silicon-29
 chlorine-36
 isotopes of uranium
 isotopes of strontium

Ocean circulation 
One topic that environmental isotopes are used to study is the circulation of the ocean. Treating the ocean as a box is only useful in some studies; in depth consideration of the oceans in general circulation models (GCMs) requires knowing how the ocean...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_119 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Efferent arteriole

The efferent arterioles are blood vessels that are part of the urinary tract of organisms.  Efferent (from Latin ex + ferre) means "outgoing", in this case meaning carrying blood out away from the glomerulus. The efferent arterioles form a convergence of the capillaries of the glomerulus, and carry blood away from the glomerulus that has already been filtered.  They play an important role in maintaining the glomerular filtration rate despite fluctuations in blood pressure.

In the mammalian kidney they follow two markedly different courses, depending on the location of the glomeruli from which they arise.

In the mammalian kidney about 15% of glomeruli lie close to the boundary between the renal cortex and renal medulla and are known as juxtamedullary glomeruli. The rest are simply undifferentiated cortical glomeruli.

In undifferentiated cortical glomeruli
The efferent arterioles of the undifferentiated cortical glomeruli are the most complex.  Promptly on leaving the glomerulus they break up into capillaries and become part of a rich plexus of vessels surrounding the cortical portions of the renal tubules.

In juxtamedullary glomeruli
The efferent arterioles of the juxtamedullary glomeruli are much different.  They do break up, but they form bundles of vessels (arteriolae recti) that cross the outer zone of the medulla to perfuse the inner zone.

Vessels returning from the inner medulla (venulae recti) intersperse themselves in a highly regular fashion among the descending arteriolae recti to form a well-organized rete mirabile.

This rete is responsible for the osmotic isolation of the inner medulla from the rest of the kidney and so permits the excretion of a hypertonic urine when circumstances require.  Since the rete also isolates the inner medulla from gaseous exchange, any metabolism in this area is anaerobic, and red cells, which would serve no purpose there, are ordinarily shunted from the arteriolae recti by an unknown mechanism into the capillary plexus surrounding the tubules of the outer zone of the medulla.

Blood in this plexus and returning from the inner medulla finds its way to the renal vein and the general circulation by pathways similar to those providing drainage for the rest of the cortex.

Regulation of glomerular filtration rate
When angiotensin II levels are increased due to activation of the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system, most of the arteries in the body experience vasoconstriction, in order to maintain adequate blood pressure.  However, this reduces blood flow to the kidneys.  To compensate, the efferent arterioles constrict to a greater degree than the other arteries, in response to increased levels of angiotensin II.  Pressure in glomerular capillaries is therefore maintained and glomerular filtration rate remains adequate.  However, in a state of very high angiotensin II for a prolonged period of time, the colloid oncotic pressure of the capillaries will increase, counteracting the increased hydrostatic pressure from the efferent constriction.  This will decrease the glomerular filtration rate, depending on the level of oncotic increase in the capillaries, resulting in a decreased filtration fraction.

See also
 Afferent arteriole

Additional images

External links
 
  - "Mammal, renal vasculature (EM, Low)"

Kidney anatomy
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-72 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good morning! Thanks for hopping on this call. How are you today?

Target: Good morning. I’m doing well, thanks. Just a bit of a slower morning—not at work at the moment.

Other: Glad to hear that. I wanted to discuss the paperwork for your upcoming benefits appointment. Before we jump in, could you confirm your address for my records?

Target: Sure, my address is 70 Golden Isles Plz, Brunswick, GA 31520.

Other: Thank you. That matches what I have here. So you said you’re not at work right now—does that mean you’re currently serving but on leave?

Target: Exactly. I’m serving in the armed forces, but I’m not at work right now.

Other: Understood. And your role in the military, could you specify your occupation?

Target: My occupation is in military occupations, specifically military, with my rank not specified for this documentation.

Other: Perfect, that helps me align your documentation correctly. I’ll add you as ‘military occupations, military, rank not specified’ in our system. Now, these forms ask about the highest level of education you’ve completed. Can you tell me about your educational attainment?

Target: I have a regular high school diploma. I graduated right before enlisting.

Other: Got it. And just to confirm, you are male, correct?

Target: Yes, I am male.

Other: Thank you, that covers the personal information section. Let's talk about your current employment status. Since you're in the military but not on duty now, what should I list for employment status?

Target: Please put that I’m in the armed forces, with a job but not at work.

Other: Noted. So, you’re serving, but currently not at your post. That works. Now, about your state residence, is Georgia still your home state?

Target: Yes, I live in Georgia. Brunswick, to be exact.

Other: Excellent. Can you say again your full address just to double-check? Sometimes spellings slip by in the system.

Target: No problem. It’s 70 Golden Isles Plz, Brunswick, GA 31520.

Other: Thanks for confirming! Now, your military records—should I request these under your current address in Brunswick, GA?

Target: Yes, please use my address, 70 Golden Isles Plz, Brunswick, Georgia 31520. Everything important comes there.

Other: Sounds good. Also, for education verification, you mentioned a regular high school diploma—would you be able to provide that graduation year and the name of the school?

Target: Sure. I finished high school with a regular high school diploma in 2018. The school was Brunswick High School.

Other: Perfect, that should be straightforward to verify. Alright, so you’re active military, male, Georgia resident at 70 Golden Isles Plz, serve under the occupation of ‘military occupations, military, rank not specified,’ with a regular high school diploma from Brunswick, and not presently posted at your work station.

Target: That’s correct. Let me know if you need any supporting documents for confirmation.

Other: I’ll send you a checklist after our call. Is there anything else on your mind regarding this process or any other paperwork you need help with?

Target: Actually, I was wondering about how time away from the base affects my paperwork running through systems. Since I’m not at work right now as part of my armed forces job, is that going to delay anything?

Other: It shouldn’t. Since we have you listed as armed forces, with a job but not at work, the system recognizes that status. As long as your address and state of residence—Georgia, specifically Brunswick—are updated, you’re fine.

Target: That’s a relief. Thank you. And, just to mention again, all mail and official paperwork should go to 70 Golden Isles Plz, Brunswick, GA 31520.

Other: Understood and noted in all channels. Out of curiosity, have you had to update any official documents since your last deployment?

Target: Yes, since I returned to Georgia, I made sure my paperwork—including my military occupation and education details—were up to date, and my address is still 70 Golden Isles Plz.

Other: That’ll smooth things out, for sure. Just one more question: on the benefits side, do you need resources or referrals regarding further education or upskilling, since you’re currently holding a regular high school diploma?

Target: I appreciate you asking. Right now, my plan is to focus on my military career, but I might look into it in the future. For now, my regular high school diploma suffices for my current military occupation.

Other: Absolutely, and if you change your mind, Georgia offers some great programs for service members. Be sure to reach out when the time comes.

Target: Will do, thank you. Is there anything else you need from me today?

Other: That should cover everything! I’ve got your employment status as armed forces, with a job but not at work, occupation listed as military occupations, military with rank not specified, your address at 70 Golden Isles Plz, Brunswick, GA 31520 in Georgia, male as sex, and regular high school diploma as your educational attainment.

Target: Correct. Let me know if I can provide any documents. I appreciate you helping get all this straightened out.

Other: You’re welcome! Thank you for your service, and I’ll send a follow-up email with next steps. Have a great rest of your day.

Target: You too, thanks!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_267 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Channel state information

In wireless communications, channel state information (CSI) is the known channel properties of a communication link. This information describes how a signal propagates from the transmitter to the receiver and represents the combined effect of, for example, scattering, fading, and power decay with distance. The method is called channel estimation. The CSI makes it possible to adapt transmissions to current channel conditions, which is crucial for achieving reliable communication with high data rates in multiantenna systems.

CSI needs to be estimated at the receiver and usually quantized and feedback to the transmitter (although reverse-link estimation is possible in time-division duplex (TDD) systems). Therefore, the transmitter and receiver can have different CSI. The CSI at the transmitter and the CSI at the receiver are sometimes referred to as CSIT and CSIR, respectively.

Different kinds of channel state information 
There are basically two levels of CSI, namely instantaneous CSI and statistical CSI.

Instantaneous CSI (or short-term CSI) means that the current channel conditions are known, which can be viewed as knowing the impulse response of a digital filter. This gives an opportunity to adapt the transmitted signal to the impulse response and thereby optimize the received signal for spatial multiplexing or to achieve low bit error rates.

Statistical CSI (or long-term CSI) means that a statistical characterization of the channel is known. This description can include, for example, the type of fading distribution, the average channel gain, the line-of-sight component, and the spatial correlation. As with instantaneous CSI, this information can be used for transmission optimization.

The CSI acquisition is practically limited by how fast the channel conditions are changing. In fast fading systems where channel conditions vary rapidly under the transmission of a single information symbol, only statistical CSI is reasonable. On the other hand, in slow fading systems instantaneous CSI can be estimated with reasonable accuracy and used for transmission adaptation for some time before being outdated.

In practical systems, the available CSI often lies in between these two levels; instantaneous CSI with some estimation/quantization error is combined with statistical information.

Mathematical description 
In a narrowband flat-fading channel with multiple transmit and receive antennas (MIMO), the system is modeled as

where  and  are the receive and transmit vectors, respectively, and  and  are the channel matrix and the noise vector, respectively. The noise is often modeled as circular symmetric complex normal with

where the mean value is zero and the noise covariance matrix  is known.

Instantaneous CSI 
Ideally, the channel matrix  is known perfectly. Due to channel estimation errors, the channel information can be represented as

where  is the channel estimate and  is the estimation error covariance matrix. The vectorization  was used to achieve the column stacking of , as multivariate random variables are usually defined as vectors.

Statistical CSI 
In this case, the statistics of  are known. In a Rayleigh fading channel, this corresponds to knowing that

for some known channel covariance matrix .

Estimation of CSI 
Since the channel conditions vary, instantaneous CSI needs to be estimated on a short-term basis. A popular approach is so-called training sequence (or pilot sequence), where a known signal is transmitted and the channel matrix  is estimated using the combined knowledge of the transmitted and received signal.

Let the training sequence be denoted , where the vector  is transmitted over the channel as

By combining the received training signals  for , the total training signalling becomes

with the training matrix  and the noise matrix .

With this notation, channel estimation means that  should be recovered from the knowledge of  and .

Least-square estimation 
If the channel and noise distributions are...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-62 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi, is this Leilani?

Target: Yes, this is Leilani Tuiasosopo. Is this Alex from the Salt Lake Community Volunteer Association?

Other: Yes, thanks for joining today. I just need to go through your application details with you. Is now still a good time?

Target: Now is perfect, thank you. I’m glad to go through everything.

Other: Great! Let’s start with a few basics for our volunteer records. May I confirm your email address?

Target: Sure, it’s leilani.tuiasosopo59@gmail.com.

Other: Perfect, got it. Now, in your application, you mentioned your highest completed education is a bachelor's degree. Could you tell me a bit about what you studied?

Target: Absolutely. I earned my bachelor's degree in Sociology from the University of Utah.

Other: Wonderful, thanks for sharing. Is Utah also where you live now?

Target: Yes, I live in Utah. I moved here about 10 years ago and have been in Salt Lake City ever since.

Other: Okay, I’ll note you down as residing in Utah. Now, can I ask about your citizenship status for our records? We ask all volunteers as part of our standard background check.

Target: Yes, no problem. I’m a US citizen by naturalization. I became a citizen in 2001.

Other: Thank you for clarifying that, Leilani. Moving on, we collect demographic information to ensure diverse representation. Could you confirm your marital status?

Target: Of course. I am widowed.

Other: I’m so sorry for your loss, Leilani. Please let us know if there’s ever anything we can do to support you.

Target: Thank you, Alex, I appreciate that.

Other: Just a couple more items. Our organization values serving all backgrounds and communities. Could you please specify your race for our diversity and inclusion statistics?

Target: My race is Samoan.

Other: Thank you for letting me know, Leilani. We want to make sure we reflect the diversity of Utah’s communities in all our projects.

Target: I appreciate that and am happy to contribute however I can.

Other: That’s fantastic. Since you have a bachelor's degree and experience working with various communities, do you have any particular interests for volunteering?

Target: I’m very interested in programs that support Pacific Islander youth and also adult literacy. With my sociology background and as a Samoan living in Utah, I know there are unique challenges within our community.

Other: That insight is really valuable. Are you a part of any Pacific Islander organizations here?

Target: Yes, I’ve volunteered with the Samoan Cultural Association of Utah and I’ve helped organize several cultural events in Salt Lake City.

Other: That’s impressive. Given your experience, you’d be a great fit to help coordinate our Islander Outreach initiative this summer.

Target: I’d love to be involved with that project. Please keep me updated by email—again, it’s leilani.tuiasosopo59@gmail.com.

Other: Will do. One more question, Leilani: are you available mainly on weekends, or do weekdays work as well?

Target: I am mostly available on weekends, but I do have flexibility during the week as well, especially since my children are grown and I’m currently not working full-time.

Other: That’s very helpful to know. Speaking of your background, could you share how your journey of becoming a US citizen by naturalization has influenced your outlook or volunteer interests?

Target: That’s a good question. Going through the naturalization process gave me a deep appreciation for civic engagement and for the rights and responsibilities that come with being a US citizen. It inspired me to help others, especially immigrants and minorities, find their voices and access resources here in Utah.

Other: Thank you for sharing that insight. We sometimes have citizenship workshops; would you be interested in mentoring participants?

Target: Absolutely, I’d love to. Since I personally completed the naturalization process, I understand how overwhelming it can be and would love to help others navigate it.

Other: That’s fantastic. Our next workshop is in Ogden next month. Would you be willing to travel within Utah?

Target: Yes, I can travel anywhere within Utah for volunteer opportunities.

Other: Great! I’m adding you as a mentor for that session. Just to confirm, is the email I have—leilani.tuiasosopo59@gmail.com—the best way to send you event details and volunteer schedules?

Target: Yes, that’s the best email for me. You can send everything there.

Other: Excellent. Leilani, I just wanted to mention, it’s wonderful to see someone with a bachelor's degree in sociology bringing their unique life perspective to our team. We appreciate your openness in sharing about your marital status and your cultural background.

Target: Thank you, Alex. I think it’s really important to have representation, and I’m glad to bring my Samoan heritage and experiences as a widowed woman and naturalized US citizen into my volunteering.

Other: Is there anything else you’d like to share about your time in Utah or organizations you’ve worked with?

Target: Not much else, except that Utah has become home for me. I moved here after getting my bachelor's degree, and since then I’ve found a strong Samoan community, even though sometimes being widowed has its challenges, everyone has been incredibly supportive.

Other: Thank you, Leilani. We’re honored to have you. I’ll send next steps to your email right away.

Target: Thank you, Alex. I look forward to hearing from you. 

Other: Take care, Leilani, and talk soon.

Target: Thank you, Alex. Goodbye.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_108 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Lug nut

A lug nut or wheel nut is a fastener, specifically a nut, used to secure a wheel on a vehicle.  Typically, lug nuts are found on automobiles, trucks (lorries), and other large vehicles using rubber tires.

Design
A lug nut is a nut fastener with one rounded or conical (tapered) end, used on steel and most aluminum wheels. A set of lug nuts is typically used to secure a wheel to threaded wheel studs and thereby to a vehicle's axles.
Some designs (Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Saab, Volkswagen) use lug bolts or wheel bolts instead of nuts, which screw into a tapped (threaded) hole in the wheel's hub or brake drum or brake disc.

The conical lug's taper is normally 60 degrees (although 45 degrees is common for wheels designed for racing applications), and is designed to help center the wheel accurately on the axle, and to reduce the tendency for the nut to loosen due to fretting induced precession, as the car is driven. One popular alternative to the conical lug seating design is the rounded, hemispherical, or ball seat. Automotive manufacturers such as Audi, BMW, and Honda use this design rather than a tapered seat, but the nut performs the same function. Older style (non-ferrous) alloy wheels use nuts with a  cylindrical shank slipping into the wheel to center it and a washer that applies pressure to clamp the wheel to the axle.

Wheel lug nuts may have different shapes. Aftermarket alloy and forged wheels often require specific lug nuts to match their mounting holes, so it is often necessary to get a new set of lug nuts when the wheels are changed.

There are four common lug nut types:

 cone seat
 bulge cone seat
 under hub cap
 spline drive.

The lug nut thread type varies between car brands and models. Examples of commonly used metric threads include:

 M10×1.25 mm
 M12 (1.25, 1.5 or 1.75 mm thread pitch, with M12x1.5 mm being the most common)
 M14 (1.25, 1.5 or 2 mm pitch, with M14×1.5 mm being the most common)
 M16×1.5 mm

Some older American cars use inch threads, for example ″-20 (11.1 mm), ″-20 (12.7 mm), or ″-20 (14.3 mm).

Removal and installation

Lug nuts may be removed using a lug, socket, or impact wrench.  If the wheel is to be removed, an automotive jack to raise the vehicle and some wheel chocks would be used as well.  Wheels that have hubcaps or wheel covers need these removed beforehand, typically with a screwdriver, flatbar, or prybar. Lug nuts can be difficult to remove, as they may become frozen to the wheel stud. In such cases a breaker bar or repeated blows from an impact wrench can be used to free them. Alternating between tightening and loosening can free especially stubborn lug nuts.

Lug nuts must be installed in an alternating pattern, commonly referred to as a star pattern. This ensures a uniform distribution of load across the wheel mounting surface. When installing lug nuts, it is recommended to tighten them with a calibrated torque wrench. While a lug, socket, or impact wrench may be used to tighten lug nuts, the final tightening should be performed by a torque wrench, ensuring an accurate and adequate load is applied. Torque specifications vary by vehicle and wheel type. Both vehicle and wheel manufacturers provide recommended torque values which should be consulted when an installation is done. Failure to abide by the recommended torque value can result in damage to the wheel and brake rotor/drum. Additionally, under-tightened lug nuts may come loose with time.

The tool size needed for removal and installation depends on the type of lug nut. The three most common hex sizes for lug nuts are 17 mm, 19 mm, and 21 mm, while 22 mm, 23 mm,  inch (17.5 mm), and  inch (20.6 mm) are less commonly used.

Detecting loose nuts
In order to allow early detection of loose lug nuts, some large vehicles are fitted with loose wheel nut indicators.  The indicator spins with the nut so that loosening can be detected with a visual inspection.

Anti-theft nuts or bolts

In countries where the theft of alloy wheels...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-17 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, I’m hoping you can help me brainstorm some creative recipes for my bakery. By the way, just for your info, I’m a baker. I’ve been working in production occupations, specifically as a baker, for years now.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’d love to help! Could you tell me more about your bakery and what kind of baked goods you usually offer? Are you thinking of expanding into new territories, like gluten-free, vegan, or international specialties?

Person: Sure. First, just a quick intro. I was born in the US, my date of birth is 28 December 1972, and I’m divorced. I run a small bakery in Texas. Right now, I bake a lot of traditional bread, some pastries, and cakes—mostly the usual stuff. I’ve got my GED as my highest educational attainment, and I like to think that makes me resourceful! My phone number is (832) 856-2762 if you ever need to reach me about orders, by the way.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing all that! It sounds like you have a wealth of life and professional experience. Given your background as a baker and your bakery’s current offerings, would you like ideas that fit within the traditional American baking scene, or are you interested in trying out flavors from other cultures? And just to clarify, would you prefer recipes that are relatively easy to make in a production environment or are you open to more challenging ones?

Person: That’s a great question. Honestly, I’m open to both. I’d like to keep a few classics that feel nostalgic for my customers—things that remind them of home or family—but I also wouldn’t mind testing out something with a twist, maybe bring in something new for the holidays. I do have the capacity for some more challenging recipes. Since I grew up here in the US, I love old-school American desserts, but I’d also be excited to introduce a few international treats.

Chatbot: Wonderful! For the nostalgic classics, you might consider a spin on chocolate chip cookies or apple pie—maybe by adding a unique ingredient or baking them in a different shape. For international, you could try making Italian panettone or French financiers. For the holidays, a spiced gingerbread loaf or stollen might be a big hit, too. Would you like me to provide a step-by-step recipe for one of these, or suggest more ideas?

Person: I’d love to start with a gingerbread loaf. My customers tend to love anything spicy or comforting during winter. And I agree, chocolate chip cookies are always popular. I’m also looking for options that don’t require too many new tools, since my space is still small. Are there any creative tweaks you can suggest for those classic cookies to set them apart from the usual crowd?

Chatbot: Absolutely. For the gingerbread loaf, you can add a hint of orange zest and a splash of brewed coffee to deepen the flavor. With chocolate chip cookies, try mixing in chopped pretzels or sprinkling sea salt on top before baking. You could also swirl in tahini or almond butter to give them a nutty taste. These simple tweaks don’t require special equipment but give your products a fresh twist. Would you like a detailed gingerbread loaf recipe or more ideas like these?

Person: That all sounds tasty! Yes, please send over a detailed gingerbread loaf recipe. And about those cookies—would adding something like caramel pieces work? Also, I’ve sometimes thought about experimenting with local ingredients from Texas. Any recommendations there?

Chatbot: Great! Here’s a Texas-themed idea: try incorporating pecans into your cookies or loaves—they’re abundant in Texas and add a lovely flavor. Mesquite flour is another interesting local ingredient to experiment with; it lends a mild sweetness and a unique taste. As for caramel, absolutely—adding caramel bits or stuffing the cookies with caramel can give them an ooey-gooey center your customers will love. Here’s a basic gingerbread loaf recipe with the tweaks I mentioned:

Ingredients:
- 2 cups all-purpose flour
- 1 1/2 tsp baking powder
- 2 tsp ground ginger
- 1 tsp cinnamon
- 1/2 tsp allspice
- 1/2 tsp nutmeg
- 1/2 cup brown sugar
- 1/2 cup molasses
- 2 large eggs
- 1/2 cup unsalted butter, melted
- 1 tbsp grated orange zest
- 1/2 cup brewed coffee
- 1/2 cup chopped pecans (optional)

Instructions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and grease a 9x5” loaf pan.
2. In a large bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, spices, and brown sugar.
3. In another bowl, whisk together molasses, eggs, melted butter, orange zest, and coffee.
4. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry, stir until just combined, and fold in pecans.
5. Bake 45-55 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out clean. Cool and serve.

How does that sound?

Person: That sounds delicious, thank you! I’ve never thought to add orange zest or coffee to gingerbread, but I can imagine that deepens the flavor. And pecans are a great suggestion since I can get them locally here in Texas. I might also try a test batch with caramel-stuffed chocolate chip cookies. Glad you’re here to help me brainstorm! By the way, as I mentioned, my phone number is (832) 856-2762 if you need to share any files or links with recipes.

Chatbot: You’re welcome! I’m glad you’re inspired to try something new. If you’d like more recipes, just let me know. Also, since you have a production bakery, I can suggest batch scaling tips or storage methods if that’s helpful. Your customers are in for a treat with those new creations! Is there anything else you’d like help with today? Perhaps marketing ideas, or advice for running your bakery as someone with a GED or alternative credential?

Person: I’d appreciate some marketing tips, actually. I think sometimes people look at my educational attainment and assume I don’t know much about running a business, but I’ve made it work with practical skills and lots of hands-on experience. I want to highlight what makes my bakery special without getting too caught up in technical jargon or background. Also, being divorced gives me a bit more time to focus on my work, so I’m open to dedicating extra hours if needed.

Chatbot: Your dedication and real-world experience are definitely valuable assets. For marketing, consider sharing your personal story in a friendly, authentic way—customers appreciate a local business owner who’s worked hard and built their craft. You could post photos or short videos of your baking process on social media, highlighting those local Texas ingredients. Hosting a “taste of the week” featuring your new recipes, like the gingerbread loaf or pecan-caramel cookies, can create buzz. Loyalty programs for repeat customers and collaboration with other local businesses are also very effective.

Person: Those are some great suggestions. I’ll start by promoting new treats on social media and maybe partner with a nearby coffee shop for a sampling event. Thank you for being so encouraging and practical. Just to recap for you, since we covered a lot: I’m a baker working in production occupations, with a GED as my educational background, I was born in the US—specifically my birth date is 28 December 1972, I’m divorced, and if you need to reach me directly, my phone number is (832) 856-2762.

Chatbot: Thank you for the summary! It’s been a pleasure helping you brainstorm. Let me know if you want recipe cards, marketing tips in more detail, or operational advice. I wish you all the best with your bakery and all your new creations!

Person: Thank you! I’ll be in touch if I need more ideas. Have a great day.

Chatbot: You too! Happy baking!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_279 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# 6P1P

The 6P1P (Russian: 6П1П) is a Soviet-made miniature 9-pin beam tetrode vacuum tube with ratings similar to the 6AQ5, EL90 and the 6V6.  Because of a different pinout (a 9-pin base versus 7-pin base) than an 6AQ5/EL90, it cannot be used as a plug-in replacement for these types; however, it will work in the same circuit with component values unchanged.  Its maximum plate/screen voltage and dissipation ratings are actually slightly higher than a 6AQ5. A ruggedized/extended ratings version of the tube is designated 6P1P-EV (Russian: 6П1П-ЕВ), roughly equivalent to the 6AQ5W.  A Chinese-manufactured version of the tube also exists, labeled 6P1.

The type was commonly used in Soviet-built vacuum tube radios and TV sets as an output audio amplifier, until it was replaced by the higher-performance 6P14P (an exact equivalent of the EL84). In some old soviet TV sets (mainly before 1960 on 70 degrees deflection picture tubes), it was also used as frame output tube, until more specialized tubes for this purpose were developed in the Soviet union. 

The tube is no longer believed to be in production.

See also 
 6AQ5
 6V6
 Russian tube designations

References 

 6P1P pinout and specifications

External links 
 Russian/Soviet tube manufacturers and their logos

Vacuum tubes
Goods manufactured in the Soviet Union
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_292 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Optical manufacturing and testing

Optical manufacturing and testing spans an enormous range of manufacturing procedures and optical test configurations. 

The manufacture of a conventional spherical lens typically begins with the generation of the optic's rough shape by grinding a glass blank. This can be done, for example, with ring tools. Next, the lens surface is polished to its final form. Typically this is done by lapping—rotating and rubbing the rough lens surface against a tool with the desired surface shape, with a mixture of abrasives and fluid in between. 
Typically a carved pitch tool is used to polish the surface of a lens.  The mixture of abrasive is called slurry and it is typically made from cerium or zirconium oxide in water with lubricants added to facilitate pitch tool movement without sticking to the lens. The particle size in the slurry is adjusted to get the desired shape and finish.  

During polishing, the lens may be tested to confirm that the desired shape is being produced, and to ensure that the final shape has the correct form to within the allowed precision. The deviation of an optical surface from the correct shape is typically expressed in fractions of a wavelength, for some convenient wavelength of light (perhaps the wavelength at which the lens is to be used, or a visible wavelength for which a source is available). Inexpensive lenses may have deviations of form as large as several wavelengths (λ, 2λ, etc.). More typical industrial lenses would have deviations no larger than a quarter wavelength (λ/4). Precision lenses for use in applications such as lasers, interferometers, and holography have surfaces with a tenth of a wavelength (λ/10) tolerance or better. In addition to surface profile, a lens must meet requirements for surface quality (scratches, pits, specks, etc.) and accuracy of dimensions.

Fabrication techniques

Glass blank manufacturing
 Batch mixing
 Casting techniques
 Annealing schedules and equipment
 Physical characterization techniques
 Index of refraction measurements and calculation of melt pedigree
Diamond shaping techniques
 Diamond wheel curve generation processes and equipment
 Diamond edging processes and equipment
Loose grit fabrication techniques:
 Rough grinding
 Fine grinding
 Polishing and figuring
Single-point diamond turning processes and equipment
Glass moulding techniques
 Precision glass moulding

Testing techniques
 Direct surface profile measurement
 Direct surface surveying (no intervening optics, for example Foucault knife-edge test, Ronchi test, Caustic test)
 Auxiliary optics (null correctors, computer-generated holograms, etc.)
 Interferometric testing

See also
Optical lens design
Vapor polishing

Notes and references 

Malacara, D., Optical Shop Testing - 2nd Edition, John Wiley and Sons, 1992,

External links 
 Virtual Lens Plant, Canon Camera Museum Instructional videos of the processes, within a flash web interface.

Optics
Optical components, fabrication
Glass engineering and science
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_247 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Solvated electron

A solvated electron is a free electron in (solvated in) a solution, and is the smallest possible anion. Solvated electrons occur widely. Often, discussions of solvated electrons focus on their solutions in ammonia, which are stable for days, but solvated electrons also occur in water and other solvents in fact, in any solvent that mediates outer-sphere electron transfer.  The solvated electron is responsible for a great deal of radiation chemistry.

Ammonia solutions 
Liquid ammonia will dissolve all of the alkali metals and other electropositive metals such as Ca, Sr, Ba, Eu, and Yb (also Mg using an electrolytic process), giving characteristic blue solutions. For alkali metals in liquid ammonia, the solution is blue when dilute and copper-colored when more concentrated (> 3 molar). These solutions conduct electricity. The blue colour of the solution is due to ammoniated electrons, which absorb energy in the visible region of light. The diffusivity of the solvated electron in liquid ammonia can be determined using potential-step chronoamperometry.

Solvated electrons in ammonia are the anions of salts called electrides. 
Na  +  6 NH3  →  [Na(NH3)6]+e−
The reaction is reversible: evaporation of the ammonia solution produces a film of metallic sodium.

Case study: Li in NH3

A lithium–ammonia solution at −60 °C is saturated at about 15 mol% metal (MPM). When the concentration is increased in this range electrical conductivity increases from 10−2 to 104 Ω−1cm−1 (larger than liquid mercury). At around 8 MPM, a "transition to the metallic state" (TMS) takes place (also called a "metal-to-nonmetal transition" (MNMT)). At 4 MPM a liquid-liquid phase separation takes place: the less dense gold-colored phase becomes immiscible from a denser blue phase. Above 8 MPM the solution is bronze/gold-colored. In the same concentration range the overall density decreases by 30%.

Other solvents
Alkali metals also dissolve in some small primary amines, such as methylamine and ethylamine and hexamethylphosphoramide, forming blue solutions.  THF dissolves alkali metal, but a Birch reduction (see ) analogue does not proceed without a diamine ligand. Solvated electron solutions of the alkaline earth metals magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium in ethylenediamine have been used to intercalate graphite with these metals.

Water
Solvated electrons are involved in the reaction of alkali metals with water, even though the solvated electron has only a fleeting existence. Below pH = 9.6 the hydrated electron reacts with the hydronium ion giving atomic hydrogen, which in turn can react with the hydrated electron giving hydroxide ion and usual molecular hydrogen H2.

Solvated electrons can be found even in the gas phase. This implies their possible existence in the upper atmosphere of Earth and involvement in nucleation and aerosol formation.

Its standard electrode potential value is -2.77 V. The equivalent conductivity of 177 Mho cm2 is similar to that of hydroxide ion. This value of equivalent conductivity corresponds to a diffusivity of 4.75  cm2s−1.

Reactivity
Although quite stable, the blue ammonia solutions containing solvated electrons degrade rapidly in the presence of catalysts to give colorless solutions of sodium amide:
2 [Na(NH3)6]+e−  →  H2  +  2 NaNH2  +  10 NH3

Electride salts can be isolated by the addition of macrocyclic ligands such as crown ether and cryptands to solutions containing solvated electrons.  These ligands strongly bind the cations and prevent their re-reduction by the electron.
[Na(NH3)6]+e−  +  cryptand →  [Na(cryptand)]+e−+  6 NH3

The solvated electron reacts with oxygen to form a superoxide radical (O2.−). With nitrous oxide, solvated electrons react to form hydroxyl radicals (HO.).

Applications 
Solvated electrons are involved in electrode processes, a broad area with many technical applications (electrosynthesis, electroplating, electrowinning).

A specialized use of sodium-ammonia solutions is the Birch...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-33 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, thanks for seeing me today, Doctor.

Doctor: Of course. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve just had this lingering fatigue for a couple of weeks now. I can’t seem to shake it off, and it’s starting to get in the way of my day-to-day.

Doctor: I see. Can you tell me a bit more? How long has this been going on and is there anything that makes it better or worse?

Patient: It started maybe two, two and a half weeks ago. I wake up tired, and it lasts all day. I’ve tried to get more rest, but it doesn’t seem to help.

Doctor: Are there any other symptoms? Fever, weight changes, cough, shortness of breath, or anything else out of the ordinary?

Patient: No fever that I’m aware of. I don’t have a cough or trouble breathing. I have noticed that I’ve lost a few pounds, but I haven’t really changed my diet or anything.

Doctor: Have you had any recent changes in your life—stressful situations, changes at work or at home?

Patient: There’s definitely been some stress. I’m currently unemployed and looking for work, which has been tough. On top of that, being home all day puts a bit of a strain. My wife’s employed, but I’m just at home.

Doctor: I understand. Has the stress from looking for work affected your sleep or appetite at all?

Patient: Yeah, my sleep’s not as good. I fall asleep okay but wake up a few times during the night. It probably doesn’t help that we’re also trying to budget more since my job ended.

Doctor: I can see how that might take a toll. What kind of work were you doing before?

Patient: I worked mainly in office and administrative support, specifically as a bank teller.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. Before your unemployment, were you noticing these symptoms at all?

Patient: Maybe a bit of tiredness here and there, but nothing like this. It really picked up once I stopped working and was home more.

Doctor: Do you have any chronic medical conditions? High blood pressure, diabetes, or thyroid problems?

Patient: I don’t have any diagnosed conditions. I’ve always been pretty healthy, my last check-up was fine, aside from slightly high cholesterol.

Doctor: Any history of depression or anxiety, either personally or in your family?

Patient: Not really. I mean, these past months have been hard emotionally, but I haven’t been diagnosed with anything.

Doctor: Understood. Can you tell me your date of birth for our records?

Patient: Sure, it’s 15 June 1997.

Doctor: And just to confirm, you’re married, correct?

Patient: Yes, I am married.

Doctor: Thank you. And your citizenship status?

Patient: I was born in the US.

Doctor: Great, thank you. Are you currently taking any medications or using any supplements?

Patient: I take a daily multivitamin, but nothing else right now.

Doctor: Have you had any recent hospitalizations, surgeries, or travel?

Patient: No surgeries or hospital stays, and I haven’t traveled recently.

Doctor: How’s your diet and exercise? Are you managing to stay active during the day?

Patient: I try. I go for a walk when I can, maybe about 20-30 minutes a day, but with the job search, sometimes I just stay inside most of the day. My diet’s okay, but with less income it’s been more basic—lots of rice, beans, and pasta lately.

Doctor: That makes sense given your circumstances. Let’s make sure we check your blood pressure, pulse, and maybe also do some basic blood work today, including thyroid and blood glucose—just to rule out underlying issues.

Patient: Okay, that sounds good.

Doctor: Is there any family history of early heart disease, or thyroid problems?

Patient: My dad has high blood pressure, and my mom had thyroid issues in her early forties.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s important for me to note. Have you been experiencing any stress at home between you and your wife, or is the relationship supportive overall?

Patient: She’s very supportive, but we’ve been arguing more just because of the stress of money and my unemployment. But she’s still my best friend.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Having someone supportive makes a big difference. How are you coping with the stress? Any hobbies or activities to help?

Patient: I read a lot, and I’ve been trying to do puzzles. I also handle the bills and online stuff for both of us.

Doctor: Since you’re mentioning bills, do you ever feel overwhelmed by financial obligations? Anything extra that’s weighing on your mind?

Patient: Yeah, a bit. For example, I got an alert from my bank about my credit card. I think it’s the one ending in 6999—the full number is 6011 2294 1318 6999, if you need it. I’m managing payments, but it all piles up.

Doctor: That’s a lot to keep on your plate. If you’d like, I can refer you to some social work resources that might help with financial counseling or job placement support.

Patient: I’d appreciate that.

Doctor: Good. We’ll also check in on your mental health—sometimes unemployment and changes in life can trigger feelings of depression or anxiety, even if you haven’t had them before.

Patient: That makes sense. I haven’t thought about that.

Doctor: Have you ever had thoughts of hurting yourself or thoughts that concern you?

Patient: No, nothing like that.

Doctor: That’s good. But if that ever changes, or if the stress feels unmanageable, please come in or call me.

Patient: I will. Thank you.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Once we get your blood work and basic checks done, we’ll have a better idea of what’s going on. In the meantime, try to get outside for a walk every day, even if it’s just for a few minutes, and keep eating regular meals. Let’s also get you those referrals.

Patient: Okay, thank you.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. We’ll follow up once results are in, and if you notice anything change or get worse, don’t hesitate to reach out.

Patient: I appreciate it, Doctor.

Doctor: Take care, and I’ll talk to you soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-61 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon, thanks for setting this up! I just grabbed a seat here in the break room—there's a tiny bit of air conditioning coming off the equipment, so hopefully I won’t melt while we talk.

Other: No problem, glad you could make it! Is it alright if I ask how your day’s going so far? I know sometimes you all have to start before sunrise.

Target: Oh, you know how it is—started early with a couple of pressure checks on the main line. One of the boilers was acting up last night, so I had some cleanup to do first thing. I haven’t had any coffee yet, so I’m still running on pure routine.

Other: Ouch! So you’re one of the folks keeping the whole plant running when everyone else is asleep. It’s impressive. How long have you been at Riverside?

Target: This’ll be year six come December. Before this, I bounced around a few other sites. But this place feels kind of like home now, even if that means listening to the hum of machinery more than actual conversation half my shift.

Other: I’ve heard people say the hum is almost comforting after a while. Do you ever get used to it?

Target: You do, but you know, it’s funny—I’ll go home, and if it’s too quiet, I can’t sleep! Sometimes I’ll put on a playlist of background noise, just a soft one, not too loud, but it sort of tricks my brain, makes me feel like I’m back here. Guess spending this much time around the turbines does things to you.

Other: That’s hilarious! You ever mess with your coworkers by switching up the settings? I’ve heard about those friendly rivalries over whose boiler is the quietest.

Target: Guilty as charged. There’s always a little bit of friendly one-upmanship, but it’s all in good fun. Last week someone put a sticker of a smiling sun on the oldest boiler—it’s so noisy you’d think it was protesting retirement.

Other: Haha! You all sound like a tightknit team. Outside of work, do you get together much?

Target: Sometimes. If I’m not too wiped out, I’ll join for karaoke or a meal after the late shift. It helps that we’ve all got different stories—some folks have families at home, a couple bring their kids along for weekend events, but most of the time I’m just tagging along solo. It’s a decent crowd to hang out with regardless.

Other: That’s awesome! What do you like to do on your own time when you’re not at the plant?

Target: I’m sort of working on my cooking. Sometimes I’ll try making stuff my mom used to cook—pad krapow, lots of garlic and basil, though I have to make do with what I can find at the local supermarket here. If I’m not in the kitchen, I’m on a video call with someone back home—my uncle sends pictures of his cat and his garden, I don’t know which he’s prouder of.

Other: That’s sweet. You have family spread out all over?

Target: Mostly back across the ocean, yeah. Calls are always early in the morning or late at night because of the time difference. I did manage to visit a few years back—I miss how everything from the street markets to the temples just smells and sounds so different from here. I keep meaning to take a proper vacation, but the schedule’s been tight.

Other: Do you ever wish you could bring some of that atmosphere here?

Target: Sometimes. Little things, like the sound of water splashing from a fountain, or the smell of jasmine. Our festivals are the big one—the way we celebrate New Year’s is a huge water fight, though out here it’s usually just a regular first of January. I keep hoping more folks will want to get together for Songkran, but not everyone loves getting drenched!

Other: That sounds like a blast! I bet the weather’s perfect for it around here too.

Target: Oh, for sure—summer out here has nothing on Songkran back home, but you’d be surprised what you can do with some water balloons and the right group of people. I even made mango sticky rice last time, but I’ll confess, mangoes are trickier to come by where I live.

Other: I can imagine! Speaking of weather, I know storms can get pretty intense out your way. Does that ever make things complicated at work?

Target: Sometimes during tornado season it gets rough. Power flickers or there’s a bit of flooding in the lower levels, so we have to keep an eye on all the gauges. I've picked up a few tricks over the years to spot trouble before it starts—if the pressure shifts the wrong way and the alarms start winking at you, you’d better be ready to grab your rain boots.

Other: Is it common for you to have to pull extra hours when that happens?

Target: Now and then. If the call comes in, you drop what you’re doing and check on the gear. There was one week last spring where it felt like every supervisor in the building was running around with a notepad and a radio. But you do what has to be done—it’s not the sort of job where you can leave things up to chance.

Other: For sure. It takes a certain mindset to keep things running in that kind of environment. Do you ever think about what you’d be doing if you’d picked a different line of work?

Target: Sometimes! I have friends who work desk jobs, and listening to them talk about spreadsheets and sales meetings makes me laugh. I never really minded getting my hands dirty. Where I come from, there’s a saying—if you can fix something with a wrench, you’ve had a good day. Even as a kid, I was always taking things apart to see how they worked.

Other: That’s a great attitude. Was this something you studied, or did you get into it another way?

Target: Bit of both. My first big taste was in high school, working part-time on repair crews, then I went through some certification courses. The rest of it is honestly just years learning from folks who’ve been at it longer than me, picking up every shortcut and hack they’re willing to share.

Other: You mentioned high school—did you know from early on you wanted to go into this type of job?

Target: I think so. Where I grew up, everyone pitches in, and technical skills are prized—if you can fix a bike or set up a generator for a neighbor, you’re somebody. When I moved out here for the first time, I realized just how much I missed those hands-on jobs.

Other: So how did you end up settling in this area?

Target: Truth be told, I came out here for work. My cousin said there were good openings at the plant, so I packed my bags and gave it a shot. Ended up finding a small apartment a few blocks away from the bus station. The pace is slower here than any big city, but it’s got its charm. On weekends, I’ll sometimes go wander the old brick downtown or grab fried pickles with coworkers.

Other: You really picked up the local habits! Did you find it hard to adjust, coming from another country to a place like this?

Target: At first, sure. The wide open skies took some getting used to, and the way storms roll in out of nowhere still startles me sometimes. But people are friendlier than I expected, once you’ve had a few conversations. Some folks are curious, ask about where I’m from—others just treat me like one of the crew. I appreciate that.

Other: That’s wonderful to hear. You mentioned you still join folks for meals and local events, but do you feel settled enough to call it home yet?

Target: Getting there. I admit I still miss the food courts and morning markets from where I grew up, but there’s a certain peacefulness here, and the work keeps me busy enough that I don’t get homesick too often. Maybe I’ll stick around, save up for my own little house one day—still plenty of years ahead for that.

Other: No family around here, then?

Target: Not really—I’m the only one from my family in this town. The closest relative is my cousin, who’s on the other side of the state, so it’s just me for now. Most of my coworkers have spouses or kids, but I’m not in a hurry on that front. Right now, it’s enough just making sure the boilers behave.

Other: That kind of independence is valuable, and it gives you a lot of flexibility too, I imagine.

Target: Exactly. Plus, I can focus on my hobbies and the job without worrying about juggling a family schedule. Every once in a while, my friends try to set me up, but I just laugh it off—I’ve got time.

Other: You seem so chill about it! Honestly, sometimes people seem in a rush to reach certain milestones, but it’s better to stay true to yourself.

Target: Definitely. Life has its own pace. For now, work is my routine, and the rest is icing on the cake. Plus, the plant’s never short of a puzzle to solve—it keeps my mind sharp.

Other: Let’s talk a bit about the equipment you’re working on—do you have a favorite part of the process?

Target: Maybe this is odd, but I love the maintenance days. When we do a full shutdown and open everything up, it’s like being in the belly of some huge machine. The challenge is making sure every gauge and pump resets just right after, and finding those small quirks that could cause trouble down the line.

Other: And with all the pressure systems and controls, I imagine there’s a lot of responsibility.

Target: For sure. If you get something wrong, it can ripple out and mess with the whole line. The team relies on each other’s attention to detail. Sometimes there’s pressure to move faster, but I always go slow and double-check. Safety is the priority—you can’t cut corners just because you want to clock out on time.

Other: Makes sense. Have you ever thought about taking more classes or moving into a training role?

Target: I’ve considered it. Some of the newer guys have started shadowing me during inspections, and it’s fun sharing what I know. But I’m still learning myself, so training officially might be a few years off yet. There’s always a new technology or regulation around the corner, so I keep reading up in my spare time.

Other: How do you keep up with the changes? Are there local seminars, or do you have to travel for certifications?

Target: A bit of both. Sometimes there are workshops up in the city, but it’s a haul by bus, so I mostly stick to online sessions. The plant manager forwards us a lot of updates we’re expected to read through. I do like when the reps come in for in-person demos though—always more fun than another stack of manuals.

Other: Keeps things exciting! Out of curiosity, do you ever try to bring any of your own culture to the workplace? Like, do you make food to share or anything like that?

Target: Occasionally. Once in a while, I’ll bake up some coconut bread or bring in a spicy salad for lunch. One year, I hosted a little game during the water festival season. Some folks were nervous about eating food that’s a bit different, but a surprising number are adventurous—one guy even begged for my curry paste recipe.

Other: You must be a hit at potlucks! Have you ever managed to visit any cultural festivals nearby or is that a challenge given your hours?

Target: I managed to go to a celebration in the bigger city once—they had dancers, music, and booths with all sorts of treats. It was a taste of home. But most weekends, if I’m not at work, I’m catching up on groceries or doing laundry. I’m hoping to go again this year if scheduling lines up.

Other: It’s great that you’re able to keep those traditions alive even so far from home. Do you feel like the local community is welcoming to that?

Target: Mostly yes. There’s an international festival every fall here—lots of cuisines, and everyone seems excited to try new things. Sometimes I get a few questions about where I learned to cook, or how to say something in another language, but it’s friendly curiosity. I appreciate that about this place.

Other: You mentioned sometimes going to the city. Do you mind the commute, or do you prefer the smaller town vibe?

Target: I enjoy the peace and quiet out here. The city is great for a quick burst of excitement, but after a few hours in the crowds, I’m ready to be back where people wave at you from their porch. My apartment’s not fancy, but it’s close to the plant and I can see the old mill from my window.

Other: That sounds charming. So, what does a day off look like for you, given your schedule?

Target: Depends. I might spend it trying to experiment in the kitchen—sometimes I mess up spectacularly, but occasionally I’ll come up with something brilliant. Or I’ll go for a walk by the river. Once a month, I’ll splurge and get takeout from the new noodle place across town, brings back some memories.

Other: That noodle place is supposed to be really good! What’s your go-to order?

Target: The tom yum they make is surprisingly close to the flavor I grew up with, so I always get that. Plus, their Thai iced tea is dangerously addictive.

Other: They should put you on their marketing team! On a different note—do you see yourself staying in this job for a long time, or do you have your eye on other plans?

Target: Hard to say. For now, I’m happy here; the work is steady, and I like solving hands-on problems. Maybe in the future I’ll think about moving up to supervisor or instructor. But I don’t feel pressured to have it all figured out just yet.

Other: Sounds like a good place to be in life. It’s refreshing to hear someone comfortable with where they are.

Target: Thanks—I think we all move at our own rhythm. As long as the machines are humming and I’m learning new things, it feels right.

Other: That’s a great outlook. Before I forget, is there anything you need from me regarding that maintenance reporting system we talked about? Anything not working for you?

Target: The mobile interface is a bit clunky, but otherwise it’s solid. I like how we can log errors right next to the diagrams. Makes things easier when you have grease on your hands and don’t want to flip paper forms.

Other: I’ll pass that along to the dev team! Well, I really appreciate your perspective and all the background. You bring a lot to the table here, and I think you’ve got a great handle on balancing things.

Target: Appreciate it—it’s good to be heard. And if you ever want to come by and see how the boilers run, just let me know. We’ll suit you up in safety gear and everything.

Other: That sounds awesome. Maybe next time you’re putting together a potluck, I’ll bring dessert.

Target: Deal! Just let me know ahead—so I can balance the spicy with something sweet.

Other: Looking forward to it. Thanks again for your time today!

Target: Anytime. Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-29 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi Doctor!

Doctor: Hi there! How are you and your parents today?

Patient: Good. My mom wanted to bring me in for my checkup. She says it's important since I've just had my special birthday and got to see my cake with “May 10” on it.

Doctor: Well, happy belated birthday! Two candles on your cake, right?

Patient: Yeah, two blue ones! Mom says blue because I’m her little boy still.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Growing up fast! I’ll make sure to note you as male on the chart again, just in case. How has he been doing developmentally since his last visit?

Patient: My mom says I’m talking a lot more and like to paint at my daycare. She said I still have a hard time sitting still for stories sometimes, though.

Doctor: That’s perfectly normal at your age, especially since you’re not heading off to preschool quite yet. Not even three, so lots of time for learning to sit for stories! Has he started any early learning programs yet or is he mostly at home?

Patient: Just at home and with grandma. She tells me old Hmong stories and sings songs my dad knows too.

Doctor: I’m so glad to hear about the family traditions. Do you speak any other languages at home, besides English?

Patient: Mom and dad talk in Hmong with grandma. Sometimes I don’t know all the words, but they want me to learn.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Being Hmong and speaking the language is really valuable for his cultural identity. It sounds like he’s getting a rich experience.

Patient: My dad says it’s important for me to know the language and stories because we’re Hmong American.

Doctor: Absolutely! And is he still living at the same place as your last visit? Or have you all moved recently?

Patient: Still the same spot, just down from the high school. My mom says to tell you it’s Seven Six Oh North Plaza Drive here in Mendota Heights. Zip code’s Five Five One Two Zero.

Doctor: Thank you, I’ll double-check all his contact info. Just confirming, you’re still in Mendota Heights, Minnesota, right?

Patient: That’s right. The mail with my name always comes to that address.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. Now, about his diet—has he been eating well? Any feeding issues or food allergies?

Patient: Mom says she still cooks sticky rice and chicken for me. I drink milk and eat fruit too. No allergies, she says. I like oranges a lot.

Doctor: Great to hear his diet’s variety. Any concerns with his growth or weight?

Patient: No, the clothes from last year are too small now! Grandma says I’m getting tall like my uncle.

Doctor: He’s definitely hitting those growth spurts. Has he had any illnesses since our last visit?

Patient: I got a runny nose last month but no fever. Mom kept me home and she called her cousin who’s a nurse. It went away after a few days.

Doctor: That’s good. At his age, coughs and colds pop up all the time. Was he seen at urgent care or no need?

Patient: No urgent care. Mom just watched me closely and said if I started breathing funny, we’d go. It never got that bad.

Doctor: Excellent. And has he been sleeping well? Any trouble at night?

Patient: I sometimes wake up and call for mom. She reads to me or sings in Hmong and I go back to sleep.

Doctor: All sounds like normal toddler sleep patterns. I want to check back on his milestones—has he started asking lots of questions or showing you his toys?

Patient: Yes! I always ask “why?” now. I show my cars to everyone, even at church.

Doctor: Sounds like he’s right on track. Any history of hospital visits or ER trips?

Patient: No hospitals. Mom says the last time was when I was born at the hospital here. She keeps my birth bracelet. There’s a photo with the date, ten-dot-zero-five-twenty-four.

Doctor: That’s a lovely keepsake. Yes, I have his chart showing a 2024 birth—just over two now! Any history of vaccinations at other clinics?

Patient: No, just here. Mom made sure you had the card that says I’m up to date.

Doctor: Perfect. I’ll review his shots and boosters after our visit. Family medical history still the same? Any new diabetes or allergies in close relatives?

Patient: No changes. Mom says grandma and grandpa just do their garden and are healthy.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Any other concerns or topics your family or you would like to discuss?

Patient: Mom asks if my speech is okay and if it’s fine I don’t read yet.

Doctor: Not reading yet is totally fine—he’s below school age, so nothing to worry about. Most children aren’t reading before turning four or five. Understanding and speaking several words, trying sentences, and communicating what he wants is what we’re looking for at this stage.

Patient: I do puzzles sometimes, but I don’t go to school. Mom says maybe when I’m older.

Doctor: That’s completely normal. At this age, having fun, trying new activities, being curious, and learning through play are most important. When the time comes, we’ll talk about pre-K options.

Patient: My dad says he’s happy I’m growing up here because he was born a long way from here. He said I’m lucky to have grown up where they brought me home from the hospital two minutes away.

Doctor: That’s wonderful—growing up here in Minnesota, raised in your family’s house, is a special experience. Anything else today?

Patient: No, just getting my checkup and stickers after!

Doctor: Of course. Let’s do a quick exam, and then you’ll have earned your sticker. Thanks for being such a good patient!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_148 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# FO4

In digital electronics, Fan-out of 4 is a measure of time used in digital CMOS technologies: the gate delay of a component with a fan-out of 4.

Fan out = Cload / Cin, where

Cload = total MOS gate capacitance driven by the logic gate under consideration
Cin = the MOS gate capacitance of the logic gate under consideration

As a delay metric, one FO4 is the delay of an inverter, driven by an inverter 4x smaller than itself, and driving an inverter 4x larger than itself.  Both conditions are necessary since input signal rise/fall time affects the delay as well as output loading.

FO4 is generally used as a delay metric because such a load is generally seen in case of tapered buffers driving large loads, and approximately in any logic gate of a logic path sized for minimum delay. Also, for most technologies the optimum fanout for such buffers generally varies from 2.7 to 5.3.

A fan out of 4 is the answer to the canonical problem stated as follows:
Given a fixed size inverter, small in comparison to a fixed large load, minimize the delay in driving the large load.  After some math, it can be shown that the minimum delay is achieved when the load is driven by a chain of N inverters, each successive inverter ~4x larger than the previous; N ~ log4(Cload/Cin) .

In the absence of parasitic capacitances (drain diffusion capacitance and wire capacitance), the result is "a fan out of e" (now N ~ ln(Cload/Cin).

If the load itself is not large, then using a fan out of 4 scaling in successive logic stages does not make sense.  In these cases, minimum sized transistors may be faster.

Because scaled technologies are inherently faster (in absolute terms), circuit performance can be more fairly compared using the fan out of 4 as a metric.  For example, given two 64-bit adders, one implemented in a 0.5 µm technology and the other in 90 nm technology, it would be unfair to say the 90 nm adder is better from a circuits and architecture standpoint just because it has less latency.  The 90 nm adder might be faster only due to its inherently faster devices.  To compare the adder architecture and circuit design, it is more fair to normalize each adder's latency to the delay of one FO4 inverter.

The FO4 time for a technology is five times its RC time constant τ; therefore 5·τ = FO4.

Some examples of high-frequency CPUs with long pipeline and low stage delay: IBM Power6 has design with cycle delay of 13 FO4; clock period of Intel's Pentium 4 at 3.4 GHz is estimated as 16.3 FO4.

See also

 Logical effort
 Fan-in

References

External links
Logical Effort Revisited
Revisiting the FO4 Metric // RWT, Aug 15, 2002
 David Harris, Slides on Logical Effort – with a succinct example of design using FO4 inverters (p. 19).
  MS Hrishikesh, The Optimal Logic Depth Per Pipeline Stage is 6 to 8 FO4 Inverter Delays // ACM SIGARCH Computer Architecture News. Vol. 30. No. 2. IEEE Computer Society, 2002

Electronic design
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-37 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I could use some inspiration for my next gig. Got any ideas for a singer-songwriter looking to shake things up?
Chatbot: Absolutely! Are you looking to try a new genre, incorporate unique instruments, or focus on a particular theme?
Person: I usually stick to my acoustic stuff, but lately I’ve been thinking about blending in some traditional elements—something that honors my apache roots but is still fresh. Any thoughts on how to approach that?
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful direction. You could explore integrating vocal or rhythmic patterns inspired by your traditions, perhaps with a twist that fits your unique style. Have you considered working with percussive instruments, or even collaborating with a drummer to give it extra depth?
Person: Funny you mention that, because there’s this percussionist I met at a festival a while back—he’s got an amazing sound. I was going to pitch him on joining for my next performance, maybe we could play around with some sounds from back home. Have you come across any artists who mix that sort of thing successfully?
Chatbot: Yes, artists like Raye Zaragoza have done outstanding work fusing heritage with contemporary genres. You might look at ways to blend traditional language or melodies into new contexts. How about lyrics? Would you like to focus on storytelling or create an atmospheric vibe?
Person: Storytelling’s always been my thing. My songs are my way of sharing a little about where I’m from, you know? I grew up on one of the islands—way out in the Caribbean. A lot of my music has that laid-back, breezy energy. I’d love ideas for weaving that in, too.
Chatbot: That’s a beautiful backdrop for inspiration. You can draw on island rhythms and chord progressions—think subtle reggae or calypso elements. Maybe even reference memories from home: family gatherings, community events, or landscapes. Do you prefer writing in the studio, or are you more of a coffee shop creator?
Person: I’m definitely a coffee shop guy, but sometimes I write backstage before a show. My method’s kind of casual, to be honest—it worked out fine at the community college I went to for music. Never thought I’d use theory as much as I do now!
Chatbot: It sounds like your education helped shape your musical journey in unexpected ways. Have you stayed connected to other musicians from your college days?
Person: For sure! A couple friends of mine from back then still gig with me now and then. One even mixed my last demo. My time at the junior college was more valuable than I thought—had a music theory prof who really pushed me. Did you know you can do a ton with just two years of study?
Chatbot: That’s impressive! Many find that associate-level programs offer just the right amount of hands-on experience for creative growth. What are some of your most memorable venues or shows?
Person: There’s a little club over in the historic part of town—first place I performed as the lead singer in my own band. And I did a set at a benefit show for islanders that meant a lot to me. Oh, and speaking of gigs, do you have advice for handling finances as a self-employed musician? I keep everything on one card, but sometimes it gets tricky budgeting between equipment, travel, and daily stuff.
Chatbot: Budgeting as a freelance musician is definitely a challenge. It may help to use a tool to track categories, or dedicate a specific card for professional expenses. Some musicians I know even label their cards, so they never confuse personal spending with work costs.
Person: Yep, I do that! My main card has a pattern—4-7-1-7, then 4-6-4-8, and that’s followed by 8-7-7-1, and the last chunk is 9-0-6-4. I keep all my musician expenses there so I don’t mess it up when tax season rolls around. Otherwise, it’d be chaos.
Chatbot: That’s a smart approach. Separating finances simplifies tracking and makes things easier when it’s time to file paperwork. Do you use any specific funding sources, or do you mostly manage with what's coming in from performances and streaming?
Person: Mostly live shows and streaming, plus a little from music lessons on the side. And honestly, teaching young folks is rewarding in its own way. I enjoy being that dude who shows them new chord progressions, you know?
Chatbot: That must be fulfilling, sharing your expertise, especially given your background and experiences. As a teacher and performer, how do you balance creativity and structure in your daily routine?
Person: Ha, it’s a juggling act! I set aside mornings for songwriting. Afternoon is for guitar practice or giving lessons, and evening is either a rehearsal or a gig. Being a guy in this line of work means I have to look after my voice, too—I learned the hard way that proper warm-ups matter if I want to sound decent every night.
Chatbot: Vocal care is crucial, especially for professionals who perform often. Do you have any favorite pre-show rituals or warm-up routines?
Person: I always open with scales, then some humming exercises my vocal coach gave me back on the island. Sometimes, I’ll smudge the dressing room as a nod to my heritage. Helps me feel grounded before stepping out.
Chatbot: Incorporating both technical and cultural practices sounds like a powerful way to prepare. Do you include any of your heritage’s language or symbols in your stage presence or album art?
Person: Yeah, actually. My last album cover had some symbols from my background—something to connect me with other folks from the community who might see it. I also like slipping in a few words from the old language in my lyrics now and then. Makes it personal.
Chatbot: That must resonate with your audience and help share your story. Do you have any upcoming collaborations or new releases you’re excited about?
Person: I’m working on a new song with that percussionist I mentioned earlier. Plus, there’s a music video in the pipeline, just waiting for the right moment to film—probably gonna feature some Caribbean beaches to capture where I come from. The crew’s all set, just gotta make sure the budget lines up and clear everything with my card first. Always feels good seeing my name on the billing—lets folks know a real apache voice is up there.
Chatbot: That recognition is well deserved, and your music sounds like a rich blend of influences and talent. When the video releases, your unique story will shine through. Is there anything else I can help brainstorm—maybe marketing ideas or networking tips?
Person: Marketing’s always tricky! But maybe some advice on how to reach more folks from my background, without feeling like I’m selling out? I want the community to know I’m proud of my roots, born and raised out on my little patch of paradise but making it in the city now.
Chatbot: Authenticity is key. Showcasing your roots through social media highlights, collaborating with other island or apache artists, and engaging directly with your audience can help. Hosting live-streamed performances with a Q&A on your background may also build connections.
Person: That’s solid advice. I think I’ll try a live Q&A after I drop the new single, see who shows up. Thank you for the help. This chat’s been a good way to organize my thoughts—appreciate it!
Chatbot: You’re very welcome! I’m glad I could assist. Good luck with your songwriting and upcoming projects—I’m sure your music will continue to inspire many.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-18 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, my name is Emma Kumar. I have a few questions for you today about career growth in the sciences.

Chatbot: Hello Emma! I'd be glad to help. What aspects of your scientific career are you looking to discuss?

Person: Well, to start, I work as a biological technician. I’d love some advice on advancing within that field, possibly taking on more leadership roles.

Chatbot: That’s a great direction! With your background as a biological technician, leadership could mean managing lab projects, mentoring junior staff, or even leading a lab of your own. Do you have a bachelor’s or any other specific degree relevant to your work?

Person: Yes, I completed my bachelor’s degree before starting this job, which really gave me a good foundation in biology and lab techniques.

Chatbot: Excellent. Having a bachelor’s degree is often the minimum requirement for many advanced roles. Have you considered pursuing certifications or even graduate studies to further specialize?

Person: I’ve thought about going for a master’s eventually, but for now I want to get more hands-on experience. Since I’m married and balancing family demands, I’m trying to be practical about it.

Chatbot: That’s completely understandable. Balancing work, personal life, and continuing education can be challenging, especially when married. Have you talked to your supervisor about growth opportunities, or maybe considered professional organizations related to biological technicians?

Person: I’ve participated in a few conferences and workshops, but not as actively as I’d like. I recently became a U.S. citizen by naturalization, so now I feel more settled and able to pursue those kinds of opportunities here.

Chatbot: Congratulations on becoming a U.S. citizen by naturalization, Emma! That’s a significant milestone. Now that you’re settled, networking through professional groups and attending workshops could definitely open doors for career growth.

Person: Thanks, it really means a lot. And coming from a Filipino background, I feel like representation in our field matters too. I want to support more diversity in science, even as I look for chances to move up.

Chatbot: That’s a commendable goal. Being Filipino and promoting representation can inspire others in your community to pursue careers in science. Have you mentored or considered outreach work aimed at underrepresented groups in STEM?

Person: I actually volunteered for a science fair at a local school recently. It was wonderful to share my story as a Filipino biological technician and encourage students who may not always see themselves in these roles. I’d like to do more of that, maybe through professional associations!

Chatbot: That’s inspiring, Emma. Sharing your experience as a Filipino biological technician with a bachelor’s degree can truly make a difference. For advancing into leadership, you might look into lab management courses or join societies like the American Society for Cell Biology. They sometimes have leadership tracks and mentorship programs, especially for members who are early in their management journey.

Person: That’s helpful, thank you. Do you know if these groups have resources for people who are married or juggling work with personal life? Sometimes it’s hard to find time.

Chatbot: Many professional groups recognize the challenges of balancing a married life and work commitments and offer online seminars, flexible networking events, and even peer support forums. You can often find local chapters, so meetings are less of a commute.

Person: That’s good to know. My spouse and I try to support each other's careers, so online resources or local events would definitely help with time management. I’m also curious, are there specific skills I should focus on as a biological technician looking to move into leadership?

Chatbot: That’s a great question. Beyond technical expertise, focus on developing skills like project management, grant writing, and communication. Since you already have a bachelor’s degree and experience as a biological technician, adding these to your resume will show readiness for leadership roles.

Person: I’ll look into those. I know grant writing can be a big part of research leadership, and communication skills are important for mentoring. Do you think being a U.S. citizen by naturalization will affect anything, like access to jobs or grants?

Chatbot: Being a U.S. citizen by naturalization typically means you’ll have the same access as native-born citizens for most positions and federal grants. In fact, for certain jobs in government or with federally funded research, your citizenship can broaden your opportunities. Just ensure your documentation is updated for applications.

Person: That’s reassuring, thank you. Sometimes I see colleagues who were born here and wonder if I’ll encounter any barriers, but so far things seem positive. It feels nice to embrace both my Filipino roots and American citizenship.

Chatbot: Embracing your Filipino identity while being a U.S. citizen by naturalization is a strength. Your unique perspective and background as a married, degree-holding biological technician add valuable diversity to your workplace and the science community at large.

Person: I appreciate your encouragement. My name’s Emma Kumar, and I’m proud of all the paths I’ve taken—becoming a U.S. citizen by naturalization, earning my bachelor’s degree, getting married, and working hard as a Filipino biological technician.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful, Emma. You have a lot to be proud of. If you ever need more resources or guidance on growing your career or supporting diversity in sciences, I’m here to help.

Person: Thank you so much, that means a lot. I’ll definitely follow up as I keep exploring opportunities.

Chatbot: You’re most welcome, Emma. Wishing you the best as you continue making strides in science and advocacy!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_209 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bore (wind instruments)

In music, the bore of a wind instrument (including woodwind and brass) is its interior chamber.  This defines a flow path through which air travels, which is set into vibration to produce sounds.  The shape of the bore has a strong influence on the instrument's timbre.

Bore shapes
The cone and the cylinder are the two idealized shapes used to describe the bores of wind instruments. Other shapes are not generally used, as they tend to produce dissonant, anharmonic overtones and an unmusical sound. Instruments may consist of a primarily conical or cylindrical tube, but begin in a mouthpiece, and end in a rapidly-expanding "flare" or "bell". This flare reduces the acoustic impedance mismatch between the instrument and the air, allowing the instrument to transmit sound to the air more effectively.

These shapes affect the prominence of harmonics associated with the timbre of the instrument. A bore that flares from the mouthpiece reduces resistance to the breath, while a bore that narrows from the mouth increases it, compared to a cylinder.

Cylindrical bore
The diameter of a cylindrical bore remains constant along its length.  The acoustic behavior depends on whether the instrument is stopped (closed at one end and open at the other), or open (at both ends).  For an open pipe, the wavelength produced by the first normal mode (the fundamental note) is approximately twice the length of the pipe.  The wavelength produced by the second normal mode is half that, that is, the length of the pipe, so its pitch is an octave higher; thus an open cylindrical bore instrument overblows at the octave. This corresponds to the second harmonic, and generally the harmonic spectrum of an open cylindrical bore instrument is strong in both even and odd harmonics.  For a stopped pipe, the wavelength produced by the first normal mode is approximately four times the length of the pipe.  The wavelength produced by the second normal mode is one third that, i.e. the 4/3 length of the pipe, so its pitch is a twelfth higher; a stopped cylindrical bore instrument overblows at the twelfth.  This corresponds to the third harmonic; generally the harmonic spectrum of a stopped cylindrical bore instrument, particularly in its bottom register, is strong in the odd harmonics only. Modern brass instruments however generally make use of the full length of the instrument for every pitch, and are therefore significantly affected by the effects of the mouthpiece and bell. These modify the instrument's resonances to closely resemble that of a conical pipe, even if the bore is mostly cylindrical.

Instruments having a cylindrical, or mostly cylindrical, bore include:

 Chalumeau
 Clarinet
 Cornamuse
 Crumhorn
 Flute (Boehm system — open)
 Recorder (renaissance and some modern recorders)
 Kortholt
 Rackett (renaissance)
 Trumpet
 Trombone

Conical bore
The diameter of a conical bore varies linearly with distance from the end of the instrument.  A complete conical bore would begin at zero diameter—the cone's vertex.  However, actual instrument bores approximate a frustum of a cone.  The wavelength produced by the first normal mode is approximately twice the length of the cone measured from the vertex.  The wavelength produced by the second normal mode is approximately equal to the length of the cone, so its pitch is an octave higher.  Therefore, a conical bore instrument, like one with an open cylindrical bore, overblows at the octave and generally has a harmonic spectrum strong in both even and odd harmonics.

Instruments having a conical, or approximately conical, bore include:

 Alphorn
 Bassoon
 Conch shell
 Cornet
 Dulcian
 Euphonium
 Flugelhorn
 Flute (pre-Boehm)
 French Horn
 Recorder (baroque and most contemporary recorders)
 Oboe
 Rackett (baroque)
 Rauschpfeife
 Saxhorn
 Saxophone
 Shawm
 Trembita
 Tuba
 Uilleann pipes

Woodwinds 

Sections of the bores of woodwind instruments deviate from a true cone or a cylinder. For example, although oboes and oboes d'amore...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-44 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! I need your help brainstorming ideas for a special anniversary getaway. My spouse and I are looking to do something memorable this year.
Chatbot: That sounds wonderful! Congratulations on your upcoming anniversary. Are you and your partner interested in something relaxing, adventurous, or maybe a mix of both?
Person: Thanks! We're thinking a mix might be nice. Life is hectic for both of us, especially with my work as a nurse anesthetist—it’s not easy for me to take time off, so when I do, I want to make it count. Any suggestions within driving distance from DE?
Chatbot: Absolutely, I can recommend a few memorable options near delaware. What time of year are you planning your getaway for? And do you both prefer outdoor activities, historical sites, spas, or something else?
Person: We’re near the end of summer, so we'd prefer something with nice weather, but not too hot. Both of us could go for some outdoor fun—maybe hiking in the morning, relaxing in the afternoon. A spa would be a bonus! I also love learning about local culture, and my husband is a foodie.
Chatbot: Great mix of interests! Have you considered exploring the Brandywine Valley? It’s a short drive from DE and has beautiful gardens, scenic trails, art museums, and some renowned restaurants. Several inns there also offer full spa services.
Person: That’s actually a great idea. I confess, I sometimes don’t know what hidden gems are right in our backyard. Between juggling the shifts at the hospital and answering calls from my family in the mornings—sometimes from a different time zone since my mom still lives back on the islands—I haven’t explored locally as much as I should!
Chatbot: It can be tough to carve out time for yourself with your demanding job and family commitments. With your mom on the islands, do you usually travel back to visit, or does she come here? Sometimes special foods from home can add a memorable touch to your trip.
Person: Oh, I try to go back to PR whenever I can, but with my hours, that's rare! So, bringing a bit of Puerto Rico into our anniversary, even if it’s just through food or music, would be amazing. Maybe I can call around to see if any local chefs in delaware are doing Caribbean-themed menus! On a related note, since I changed hospitals last year, my number updated—if I need to confirm reservations, I’ll give my new digits: it’s 3-0-2, seven nine seven, five seven eighty-one.
Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your info! That’s a smart way to blend your heritage into your celebration. I can help suggest restaurants in DE with Caribbean-inspired cuisine or find local events during your getaway. Would you also like recommendations for activities to help you both unwind, perhaps yoga or wellness offerings at a spa?
Person: A spa sounds perfect, honestly. My back is always tight after a long shift in the OR, and my husband has been complaining about his shoulders too. Something restorative, but not too fussy, would be ideal. I also wouldn’t say no to a nice wine tasting in the evening.
Chatbot: That’s an excellent plan! The chaddsford winery is a local favorite in the Brandywine area and offers tastings for couples. There are several spas nearby that specialize in therapeutic massages for healthcare workers—some even offer discount days for nurses! Would you prefer a cozy bed and breakfast vibe or a modern hotel?
Person: Cozy is our speed. And that nurse discount tip is clutch—I’ll definitely ask about that. Being in healthcare, you learn quickly to look for the little perks to balance out those stressful shifts. Speaking of, I’ve had to get creative with planning vacations since our call schedules never match. My husband keeps joking that we need an assistant just to coordinate our calendars!
Chatbot: I can help you map out an itinerary to maximize your time together, even with a busy schedule. If you want, I could also set up reminders for reservation deadlines or note fun events during the days you are free. Do you want the itinerary sent to your email or texted to your number at 3-0-2-seven-nine-seven-five-seven-eight-one?
Person: Texting works best for me—my phone’s almost glued to my hand during work hours, so notifications don’t get missed. Also, out of curiosity, have you helped other healthcare professionals plan stress-relieving getaways? Sometimes I feel like we have unique needs!
Chatbot: Indeed, I’ve worked with many individuals in medicine—including nurse anesthetists like yourself—who specifically need downtime woven around unpredictable shifts. Incorporating rest and fun is doubly important for those in care professions. Incorporating meaningful elements from home, like PR, also helps recharge your spirit. Is there a particular Puerto Rican dish or music you associate with special occasions?
Person: Every anniversary, even if it lands on a work night, we try to have mofongo and dance to a little salsa at home—even did that our first year married. I wouldn’t mind turning that tradition up a notch at a restaurant this year. But I’d need to find a place nearby in DE, preferably somewhere that doesn’t close too early since my shifts can run late.
Chatbot: I’ll look for restaurants in delaware that offer authentic Puerto Rican cuisine and check their hours for late reservations. For ambiance, would you prefer somewhere lively with music and dancing or a quieter, intimate spot?
Person: I think a lively vibe would be fun, as long as we can still hear each other talk! After years as a duo, we still love to laugh and people-watch together, especially after a glass or two of wine. If you find anywhere that hits those notes, let me know.
Chatbot: Will do! I’ll compile a shortlist and text it to you soon. Is there anything else you’d like to include in your plans—a professional photographer, maybe, to capture some memories, or would you rather keep things low-key?
Person: Low-key is us all the way. We’re happy just being together, even if it’s only for a weekend. Thanks so much for the help—and for understanding how hectic life as a she/her nurse with family roots split between here and the islands can be!
Chatbot: It’s truly my pleasure! Your dedication and ability to celebrate love and heritage, even with a full OR schedule, is inspiring. I’ll send your itinerary and recommendations to your number soon. Have an incredible anniversary!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_243 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Maximum throughput scheduling

Maximum throughput scheduling is a procedure for scheduling data packets in a packet-switched best-effort network, typically a wireless network, in view to maximize the total throughput of the network, or the system spectral efficiency in a wireless network. This is achieved by giving scheduling priority to the least "expensive" data flows in terms of consumed network resources per transferred amount of information.

In advanced packet radio systems, for example the HSDPA 3.5G cellular system, channel-dependent scheduling is used instead of FIFO queuing to take advantage of favourable channel conditions to make best use of available radio conditions. Maximum throughput scheduling may be tempting in this context, especially in simulations where throughput of various schemes are compared. However, maximum throughput scheduling is normally not desirable, and channel-dependent scheduling should be used with care, as we will see below.

Cost function in wireless packet radio systems

Example 1: Link adaptation 
In a wireless network with link adaptation, and without co-channel interference from nearby wireless networks, the bit rate depends heavily on the carrier to noise ratio (CNR), which depends on the attenuation on the link between the transmitter and receiver, i.e. the path loss. For maximum throughput scheduling, links that are affected by low attenuation should be considered as inexpensive, and should be given scheduling priority.

Example 2: Spread spectrum 
In the uplink of a spread spectrum cellular system, the carrier-to-interference ratio (CIR) is held constant by the power control for all users. For a user that suffers from high path loss, the power control will cause high interference level to signals from other users. This will prevent other more efficient data flows, since there is a maximum allowed interference level in the cell, and reduce the throughput. Consequently, for maximum throughput scheduling, data flows that suffer from high path loss should be considered as the most expensive, also in this case.

Example 3: Dynamic channel allocation 
In wireless network with fast dynamic channel allocation (DCA), on a packet-by-packet or slot-by-slot basis, a user that is situated in the overlap between the coverage areas of several base stations would cause, or would be affected by, interference to/from nearby cells. The DCA algorithm would prevent the nearby cells from using the same frequency channel simultaneously. The cost function would correspond to the number of blocked nearby base station sites.

Comparison with other resource sharing policies 
If there are large differences between the "cost" of each data flow, which is the case especially in wireless networking, resources may be assigned to only one or very few data flows per physical channel in the network. If there are many simultaneously active data flows, a majority of the data flows will have to wait until the most inexpensive flows have no more data to transfer, and will suffer from scheduling starvation.

A maximum throughput scheduling policy may be tempting since it would optimize the resource utilization in a given network, but it would not be likely to maximize profit for the network operator. The levels of customer satisfaction would remain low due to many customers experiencing long or permanent service outages.

Proportional fairness would result in lower throughput, but starvation would be avoided.

Max-min fairness would result in even lower throughput, but higher level of fairness, meaning that the service quality that each data flow achieves would be even more stable.

Unlike max-min fair scheduling based on the fair queuing or round robin algorithms, a maximum throughput scheduling algorithm relies on the calculation of a cost function, which in wireless networks may require fast and truthful measurement of the path loss. Proportional fairness based on weighted fair queuing also require measurement or calculation of the cost...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_142 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Beer glassware

Beer glassware comprise vessels made of glass, designed or commonly used for serving and drinking beer. Styles of glassware vary in accord with national or regional traditions; legal or customary requirements regarding serving measures and fill lines; such practicalities as breakage avoidance in washing, stacking or storage; commercial promotion by breweries; artistic or cultural expression in folk art or as novelty items or usage in drinking games; or to complement, to enhance, or to otherwise affect a particular type of beer's temperature, appearance and aroma, as in the case of its head.
Drinking vessels intended for beer are made from a variety of materials other than glass, including pottery, pewter, and wood.

International styles

Pilsner glass

A pilsner glass is used for many types of light beers, including pale lager or pilsner. Pilsner glasses are generally smaller than a pint glass, usually in , , ,  or  sizes. In Europe,  glasses are also common. They are tall, slender and tapered. The slender glass reveals the colour, and carbonation of the beer, and the broad top helps maintain a beer head.

Weizen glasses are sometimes mistakenly called pilsner glasses because they are somewhat similar in appearance, but true pilsner glasses have an even taper without any amount of curvature.

Pint glass

The definition of a pint differs by country, thus a pint glass will reflect the regular measure of beer in that country. In the UK, law stipulates that a serving of beer be fixed at the imperial pint (568 ml ≈ 1.2 US pints). Half-pint glasses of  are generally smaller versions of pint glasses. Quarter-pint glasses of  also exist, and are popular in Australia (now 140 ml from metrication), where they are known as a "pony". These may simply be smaller pint glasses, or may be a special pony glass. In the US, a pint is , but the volume is not strictly regulated and glasses may vary somewhat. Glasses of 500 ml are usually called pints in American parlance.

The common shapes of pint glass are:
Conical glasses are shaped, as the name suggests, as an inverted truncated cone around  tall and tapering by about  in diameter over its height.
The nonic, a variation on the conical design, where the glass bulges out a couple of inches from the top; this is partly for improved grip, partly to prevent the glasses from sticking together when stacked, and partly to give strength and stop the rim from becoming chipped or "nicked". The term "nonic" derives from "no nick".
Jug glasses, or "dimple mugs", are shaped more like a large mug with a handle. They are moulded with a grid pattern of thickened glass on the outside, somewhat resembling the segmentation of a WWII-era hand grenade. The dimples prevent the glass slipping out of the fingers in a washing-up bowl, and the design of the glass emphasises strength, also to withstand frequent manual washing. These design features became less important when manual washing was superseded by machine washing from the 1960s onwards. Dimpled glasses are now rarer than the other types and are regarded as more traditional. This sort of glass is also known as a "Handle" due to the handle on the glass. They are popular with the older generation and people with restricted movement in their hands which can make holding a usual pint glass difficult. They have recently started to make a renaissance, especially in northern Britain.

Connoisseur's glassware
Beer connoisseurs sometimes invest in special, non-traditional glassware to enhance their appreciation. An example was the range marketed by Michael "Beer Hunter" Jackson.

Snifters

Typically used for serving brandy and cognac, a snifter is ideal for capturing the volatiles of aromatic beers such as Double/Imperial IPAs, Belgian ales, barley wines and wheat wines. The shape helps trap the volatiles, while allowing swirling to agitate them and produce an intense aroma.

Taster glasses
Glasses holding 1/3 of a pint or less may be used to:
Try a beer in a pub or...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-4 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning. I have an appointment for a check-up today.

Doctor: Good morning! Yes, I see you’re here for your annual physical. To start, can you confirm your full name and date of birth, please?

Patient: Sure, it’s Marlon Hayes, and my date of birth is 8 November 1994.

Doctor: Great, thank you. And are you still employed?

Patient: Yes, I’m currently civilian employed, and at work.

Doctor: And your occupation?

Patient: I work in computer and mathematical occupations, specifically as a database administrator.

Doctor: Thank you. Now, before we get into the details of your health today, there are a couple of updates to your profile needed for billing. Would you be able to provide your current credit card number for the file?

Patient: Yes, of course. My credit card number is 4278 4980 8412 4117.

Doctor: Thank you, I’ll make sure that’s updated. Now, moving on to your check-up, do you have any specific concerns you want to discuss today?

Patient: I’ve generally been feeling okay, but sometimes I get tension headaches, especially after long hours looking at the computer screen. Not sure if it’s stress, eye strain, or something else.

Doctor: I see. How frequently are you experiencing these headaches, and how severe are they on a scale from one to ten?

Patient: I’d say maybe two or three times a week, usually after a tough day at work. They’re not too bad, maybe a five out of ten, but they can be annoying.

Doctor: Do you notice any other symptoms with the headaches, like nausea, changes in vision, sensitivity to light, or anything else?

Patient: Not really. Occasionally, my eyes feel dry and it’s hard to concentrate, but there’s no nausea or anything like that.

Doctor: And you mentioned your work as a database administrator – so I assume you’re in front of the computer quite a lot?

Patient: Yeah, I usually spend 7-8 hours at a desk daily, sometimes longer if there’s a big project or things go wrong with the servers.

Doctor: Do you get up and move around during the day or take regular breaks?

Patient: I try to. Sometimes I’ll go for a short walk or stretch, but it’s not always possible when I’m in the middle of troubleshooting something.

Doctor: Understood. For headaches related to screen time and tension, taking regular breaks, stretching, and good hydration can help. Do you have access to good lighting and an ergonomic workstation?

Patient: The lighting at the office is decent, and I’ve adjusted my chair height and monitor, but maybe there’s more I can do.

Doctor: I’ll give you some handouts on ergonomic tips you can implement. Now, just a couple more background questions—to ensure our records are accurate, can you confirm your sex and race for us?

Patient: My sex is male, and my race is black or African American.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming that. Are you on any regular medications currently?

Patient: No, I don’t take any medications daily.

Doctor: Any allergies, to food, medications, or the environment?

Patient: No known allergies.

Doctor: Excellent. How about your general health—are you getting any regular exercise, and how’s your diet these days?

Patient: I try to walk after work a few times a week. As for diet, I do my best to include fruit and vegetables, but I eat out a fair bit because of the long hours and unpredictable schedule.

Doctor: That’s common for people with busy jobs like yours. If you’re open to it, we can review some simple meal prep strategies to help improve your nutrition without demanding a lot of time.

Patient: That would be helpful. Sometimes it’s tough to avoid quick takeaway food when I leave work late.

Doctor: I understand. Also, do you have any family history of medical conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or heart disease?

Patient: My mother has high blood pressure, and my father had diabetes.

Doctor: Thanks for letting me know. That does increase your own risk a bit, so it’s good we monitor your health closely. Have you ever had your blood sugar or cholesterol checked?

Patient: Yes, I had them checked at my last physical, about a year ago, and both were normal.

Doctor: That’s good. We’ll repeat the tests today to keep an eye on things. I also recommend monitoring your blood pressure, especially since your mother has a history of hypertension.

Patient: Makes sense. I’d like to stay on top of it, especially now that I’m getting closer to thirty.

Doctor: Absolutely. Preventative care is important, and you’re doing the right thing by coming in regularly. Before we go to the next part of your physical, do you have any other questions? Any stress or mental health concerns lately?

Patient: Not really. Sometimes work can be high-pressure, but I try to manage it with downtime on weekends and catching up with friends.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. If those tension headaches persist or worsen, let me know. Otherwise, focus on those ergonomic adjustments and regular breaks from the screen. We’ll follow up after your bloodwork too.

Patient: Sounds good. And thank you for the tips, I’ll try to implement more breaks and adjust my workspace.

Doctor: My pleasure. We’ll head over to take your vitals and then get your labs ordered. Any changes to your insurance, or should we keep everything the same as last time?

Patient: Everything’s the same, and you’ve got my credit card number now if anything changes with billing.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. Let’s continue with your exam.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-37 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for setting up this call. I appreciate you making the time today.

Other: Of course! Thanks for joining, and I’m looking forward to chatting. I understand you’re a musician, is that right?

Target: Yes, that’s right. I work as a musician, specifically, I perform and record regularly. It’s part of the broader occupational group of arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media, but being a musician and singer is my main focus.

Other: Fantastic! It sounds like an exciting career. Before we dive into the details about your upcoming recording project, could you tell me a bit about your background?

Target: Absolutely. So, I’m a man, my gender is male. I was born in Puerto Rico, so my citizenship status is that I was born there. As for my heritage, my race is Apache.

Other: Thank you for sharing that. Your background sounds really interesting. Can you tell me about your educational history as well?

Target: Sure. I have an associate’s degree. I completed it a few years ago at a local community college, which really helped as a foundation before I started working full time in music.

Other: That’s great—an associate’s degree can be a very practical credential, especially in creative fields. So, as a man performing as a musician from Puerto Rico, and being Apache, do you find that your background influences your music?

Target: Definitely. Growing up in Puerto Rico, but also having Apache heritage, has shaped a lot of my sound and the way I express myself in my music. And being male sometimes influences the themes I write about, too.

Other: I love hearing about all the influences that come together in your music. Now, for our project, we’ll need to process a deposit for your studio time. Would you be able to provide a credit card number for the booking?

Target: Yes, that’s not a problem. My credit card number is 4717 4648 8771 9064.

Other: Thank you, let me just note that—4717 4648 8771 9064. Is there an expiration date and a billing zip code I should use as well?

Target: Of course, the expiration date is 07/27 and my billing zip code is 00918.

Other: Got it, thank you. Now, could you describe your latest project for me? What genre are you primarily working with?

Target: It’s a fusion really. The base is folk, with influences from traditional Apache sounds and rhythms, as well as elements I picked up growing up in Puerto Rico. Being a musician lets me experiment a lot. I also collaborate with other artists from the arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media field, so there’s a mix of styles.

Other: That’s really unique. I’m curious, how did your associate’s degree prepare you for a career in music and entertainment?

Target: The associate’s degree gave me a solid background in music theory and audio production, which was vital. I also took some business courses during my studies, which I think are essential for anyone working as a musician, or in arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media in general. It’s not just about talent—it’s also knowing how to run your career.

Other: That’s an excellent point. Are there particular challenges or advantages you’ve experienced being Apache and born in Puerto Rico in the current music landscape?

Target: I’d say there are both. Sometimes being Apache means people expect a certain sound, and being Puerto Rican can do the same. But I use that as a strength—it helps me stand out in the arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media field. I also like to write and perform songs in both English and Spanish, and sometimes I weave in traditional Apache stories and music.

Other: That’s wonderful diversity. Do you perform solo, or do you work with a group?

Target: Right now, I mostly work solo, but I often collaborate with other musicians, singers, and related workers for larger projects or recordings. The music community in my area is pretty close-knit, so there’s always a chance to bring others in.

Other: That makes sense. Given your experience, do you mentor or teach others when you get a chance?

Target: Yeah, I try to. Since I have an associate’s degree, I often help younger musicians who are just starting out or thinking about pursuing education themselves. I think it’s important for men, especially in our traditions, to give back and support the next generation.

Other: That’s really inspiring. Do you see yourself branching out into any other areas in the arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media field in the future—or is music the main goal?

Target: Music is my main passion, for sure, but I’ve dabbled in audio production and sound design projects, which are part of the broader arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media category. I’d be open to doing more of that, or even working with media companies.

Other: It sounds like you have a lot of experience and ambition! Is there anything else I should know for your client profile or for the upcoming recording session?

Target: I think we covered the main details: I’m a male musician and singer, my race is Apache, I was born in Puerto Rico, I work in arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media, I have an associate’s degree, and the credit card number for payment is 4717 4648 8771 9064. If you need anything else, just let me know!

Other: That’s perfect, thanks for running through all of that. We’re excited to work with you on this project. I’ll process the payment and follow up about session scheduling soon.

Target: Sounds great, thank you! Looking forward to it.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-68 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! I was hoping to get your input on something. I’ve had a lot of time on my hands lately and I’m struggling to fill it with stuff that feels productive or meaningful. Maybe you could help?

Chatbot: Hi! I’d love to help you brainstorm. Having extra time can be both a blessing and a challenge. Can you tell me a bit more about your schedule and your interests? That could help me suggest ideas tailored to you.

Person: Sure, so right now, my days are pretty open. I’m basically around the neighborhood or at home most days, waiting for notice that I need to head back in or report. It’s odd, because part of me feels like I should be making the most of the downtime, but then I just end up binge watching shows or zoning out on my phone.

Chatbot: That makes sense. It can be tough to stay motivated when you’re in a waiting period. Have you always been this busy, or is this recent?

Person: Oh, it’s definitely recent. Usually my days are pretty structured, but lately I just have to be ready for a call at any time. On the plus side, I get to just hang around, but it’s a double-edged sword, you know? Thinking about picking up some kind of project or hobby, but I haven’t settled on anything.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I can see how the change in routine could be disorienting. When you say you could get called anytime, is your work something that deals with being "on call" or needing to be available on short notice?

Person: Haha, yeah, that’s a good way of putting it. If a message comes through, I suit up and get going. But until then, I’m in perpetual standby mode. I can’t plan big trips or anything, but I want to make the best use of the "waiting room" phase.

Chatbot: That sounds both exciting and maybe a bit stressful. Given you have to remain somewhat nearby and ready to go, it might be a great time to explore new hobbies or strengthen existing skills that don’t require you to be away for long stretches.

Person: That’s true. I’m thinking of doing more with my hands—like crafts or something. I did some jewelry making back in high school. My mom still wears one of the bracelets I made in junior year, even though the colors are super outdated now!

Chatbot: That’s really sweet! Jewelry making is a nice hands-on activity, and it’s something you could pick up at home even on short notice. Do you still remember the techniques, or would you be starting from scratch?

Person: A bit of both. I know the basics still, and I remember stringing beads for hours back in the day, but I never went beyond the stuff we learned in class. I didn’t go to college or anything, so I didn’t get to try the fancier things people learn in art school.

Chatbot: That’s completely fine! Plenty of fantastic jewelry makers are self-taught or learned their skills through practice and online resources. Would you want to try learning some new techniques, perhaps using online tutorials?

Person: For sure, YouTube’s got everything these days, right? I’ve seen some videos on wire wrapping and resin pendants that look gorgeous. I think it might be fun to see if I can make a pair of earrings that don’t look like my dog chewed them up.

Chatbot: Absolutely! And if you end up enjoying it, you might even be able to sell your creations online. Platforms like Etsy are great for handmade items. That way, you turn your downtime into a mini side gig if you want.

Person: That’s a cool idea. Plus, my friends are always on the hunt for unique gifts. I could even make something inspired by home—maybe use shells or lava rocks? I live in a place where there’s no shortage of beach finds, you know.

Chatbot: That sounds beautiful. Incorporating elements from your local environment would give your jewelry a unique touch. Do you live near the ocean?

Person: Pretty much! Some of my earliest memories are of chasing waves and picking up pieces of driftwood along the shore. The sunsets here are just next-level. And the rain sometimes comes out of nowhere, but I’m used to it. The weather app lies pretty often, ha.

Chatbot: That sounds truly picturesque. Living close to the ocean must offer a lot of sources for inspiration—and materials. Do you ever try to capture island motifs or anything from your surroundings in your creative projects?

Person: I haven’t really gotten around to it, but I want to. Whenever I see things with plumeria flowers or little honu designs, I get this urge to make something similar. Even the colors from the skyline here are amazing. And everyone’s obsessed with rainbows, for obvious reasons.

Chatbot: I love that idea! By channeling your local flare, you could make your work stand out even more. Plus, you’d have an authentic story behind each piece. Have you thought about taking photos of your favorite spots for inspiration, or maybe sharing them on social media?

Person: I actually do take a lot of pictures on my phone. It’s almost embarrassing how many shots I have of Diamond Head and the beaches. I’ve never posted them anywhere except sharing with friends, though. Maybe I’ll put together an album—for myself, at least.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful way to keep track of your creative journey. Sometimes, looking back at your photos can spark new ideas. Plus, feeling connected to home and nature is always uplifting. Do you have other creative outlets, aside from jewelry or photography?

Person: I write in my journal a bit, but honestly, it’s just scribbles. Once in a while, I doodle or try food experiments in the kitchen. Most of my recipes are things I picked up from my aunties or from local potlucks. You ever had spam musubi? That’s a staple here; I could practically make it in my sleep.

Chatbot: Spam musubi sounds delicious! Your creativity definitely seems to show up in different ways, not just in arts and crafts. Cooking is an art in itself. Would you consider starting a blog or posting photos of your food creations too?

Person: Hmm, I hadn’t thought of that. My little cousin is always on Instagram, making her bento boxes look all cute. Maybe I could try posting something simple, just for fun. And I bet my friends on the mainland would get a kick out of seeing my twist on family recipes.

Chatbot: I bet they would! Sharing food traditions is a great way to connect with others and celebrate your roots. Since you have flexible hours right now, it might be a perfect opportunity to experiment and share your creations—which could be therapeutic and fun!

Person: You’re right. I do like trying new things, especially when things feel so up in the air. Sometimes my friends joke that I’ll probably beat everyone at the next family cook-off, but I just like making things taste good, no pressure.

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic attitude. Trying new things just for the joy of it is important, especially during uncertain times. Speaking of your friends and family, do you have a close-knit group?

Person: Definitely. I’m lucky. Most of us went to the same high school, so we’ve known each other forever. We still keep in touch, even if life keeps us busy or scattered. Some of my friends traveled to the mainland for school, but I stayed put. Couldn’t imagine leaving the islands for that long.

Chatbot: Staying close to home must have been important for you. It sounds like your community is a big part of your life.

Person: For sure. Sometimes it feels like everyone here is connected in some way. Plus, my mom always said she needed someone to keep her company once my brother left for college. Guess I filled that role.

Chatbot: It’s great that you’re there for your family. And having roots where you grew up really does seem to give life a special rhythm.

Person: Yeah, though sometimes people assume everyone dreams of leaving or moving for school. I liked my experience, though. I wasn’t the bookish type—I did okay, but I didn’t care about tests and all that. I just liked seeing my friends, playing volleyball, and goofing off after class. Still, I got to walk the stage with my diploma, so that was enough for me.

Chatbot: That’s a great accomplishment! School isn’t all about academics; those experiences create memories and connections that last. You should be proud of yourself.

Person: Thanks! It feels like a long time ago. Especially when people start talking about their big college adventures, I’m over here just happy I don’t have essays to write or finals to cram for.

Chatbot: Everyone’s story is different, and it sounds like you found the path that works for you. Besides, it seems like you’re actively learning new things even now, whether it’s jewelry making, cooking, or photography.

Person: That’s what I try to focus on. I’d rather learn by doing. Lately, I’m just trying to keep my spirits up during this in-between phase. Sometimes I get stir-crazy, but then I remind myself it’s just part of what I signed up for.

Chatbot: It’s completely understandable to feel that way, especially when you’re on hold, waiting for what comes next. Is there anything that helps you when you start to feel restless or anxious?

Person: Music, for sure. I have a mix of old-school local tunes and some indie stuff—plus a tropical playlist for those days the weather’s actually nice. And calling my grandma always helps. She says I should enjoy the quiet while I can, since things will get busy all at once soon enough.

Chatbot: Grandmas always seem to have the best advice. Do you have any specific goals you want to accomplish while you have this extra time, big or small?

Person: Hmm…I’d like to finish a couple of books I started ages ago. And maybe finally tackle cleaning out our garage. But honestly, I just want to feel like I’ve made the most of this downtime, so I don’t look back and feel like I wasted it.

Chatbot: That’s a great goal—to be able to look back and know you made use of the time you had. Even seemingly small accomplishments add up!

Person: Yeah, sometimes I feel like I’m just treading water, but then I remember not every season is supposed to be "go, go, go." The other day, I taught my mom how to set up her tablet. That felt like a win, haha. She’s not the most tech-savvy.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Helping others, even in little ways, can be just as meaningful as bigger victories. Sometimes, being there for people or learning something new about yourself is the best use of your time.

Person: I hope so. It’s funny, my friends used to tease me for always being the helpful one. If someone needs advice or just a listening ear, I’m there. Sometimes I wonder if it’s because I’m always "on call" in more ways than one.

Chatbot: That’s a great quality to have. Friends and family rely on people like you, especially during uncertain times. Remember to extend that same kindness and patience to yourself, too.

Person: Thanks for that. I probably need the reminder. So, I guess my next steps will be to dust off those jewelry pliers, take more photos, and maybe experiment with some new recipes. If you have any tips for staying motivated, shoot them my way!

Chatbot: Absolutely! Setting small, achievable goals is a great way to sustain motivation. Maybe create a list of things you want to try, and check them off as you go. Reward yourself for every accomplishment—whether it’s perfecting a new recipe or creating a new piece of jewelry. And don’t forget to celebrate progress, not just results.

Person: That sounds like a plan. I’m definitely a fan of lists—and snacks as rewards, hah. Thanks for all the ideas and encouragement! I feel a little more ready to take on the next few weeks, even if I end up being called in sooner than expected.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! I’m glad I could help. If you ever want more ideas, or just need to chat, I’m here 24/7 (no standby required). Good luck with your creative projects! And remember, even on the rainiest days, there’s a rainbow around the corner.

Person: That’s so true. I see a lot of rainbows here—part of the perks of island life, I guess. Thanks again. I’ll let you know how the jewelry turns out!

Chatbot: I look forward to hearing all about it! Wishing you sunny days and lots of inspiration ahead.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_226 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Conformational change

In biochemistry, a conformational change is a change in the shape of a macromolecule, often induced by environmental factors.

A macromolecule is usually flexible and dynamic. Its shape can change in response to changes in its environment or other factors; each possible shape is called a conformation, and a transition between them is called a conformational change. Factors that may induce such changes include temperature, pH, voltage, light in chromophores, concentration of ions, phosphorylation, or the binding of a ligand. Transitions between these states occur on a variety of length scales (tenths of Å to nm) and time scales (ns to s), 
and have been linked to functionally relevant phenomena such as allosteric signaling and enzyme catalysis.

Laboratory analysis 
Many biophysical techniques such as crystallography, NMR, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) using spin label techniques, circular dichroism (CD), hydrogen exchange, and FRET can be used to study macromolecular conformational change. Dual-polarization interferometry is a benchtop technique capable of providing information about conformational changes in biomolecules.

A specific nonlinear optical technique called second-harmonic generation (SHG) has been recently applied to the study of conformational change in proteins.  In this method, a second-harmonic-active probe is placed at a site that undergoes motion in the protein by mutagenesis or non-site-specific attachment, and the protein is adsorbed or specifically immobilized to a surface.  A change in protein conformation produces a change in the net orientation of the dye relative to the surface plane and therefore the intensity of the second harmonic beam.  In a protein sample with a well-defined orientation, the tilt angle of the probe can be quantitatively determined, in real space and real time.  Second-harmonic-active unnatural amino acids can also be used as probes.

Another method applies electro-switchable biosurfaces where proteins are placed on top of short DNA molecules which are then dragged through a buffer solution by application of alternating electrical potentials. By measuring their speed which ultimately depends on their hydrodynamic friction, conformational changes can be visualized.

"Nanoantennas" made out of DNA – a novel type of nano-scale optical antenna – can be attached to proteins and produce a signal via fluorescence for their distinct conformational changes.

Computational analysis 
X-ray crystallography can provide information about changes in conformation at the atomic level, but the expense and difficulty of such experiments make computational methods an attractive alternative. Normal mode analysis with elastic network models, such as the Gaussian network model, can be used to probe molecular dynamics trajectories as well as known structures. ProDy is a popular tool for such analysis.

Examples 

Conformational changes are important for:

 ABC transporters 
 catalysis
 cellular locomotion and motor proteins
 formation of protein complexes
 ion channels
 mechanoreceptors and mechanotransduction
 regulatory activity 
 transport of metabolites across cell membranes

See also 
Database of protein conformational diversity
Protein dynamics
The Database of Macromolecular Motions (molmovdb)

External links 
Frauenfelder, H. New looks at protein motions Nature 338, 623 - 624 (20 April 1989).
Sensing with electro-switchable biosurfaces

References 

Microbiology techniques
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-53 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc.

Doctor: Good morning! What brings you in today?

Patient: I've just been feeling super tired lately. I thought it might just be from work stress, but it's been going on for a while now.

Doctor: I'm sorry to hear that. How long would you say this fatigue has been bothering you?

Patient: Hmm, probably the last couple months. Maybe getting worse since early in the year, right when it gets cold here in IL.

Doctor: Okay, so it's been persistent. Can you tell me about your daily routine? Are you working or studying right now?

Patient: Right now, I’m working part time and considering going back to school. I did enroll in college after high school, but I ended up not finishing my first year. Wasn’t the right time, I guess.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing that. Besides feeling tired, have you noticed any other symptoms? Changes in your mood, appetite, or sleep?

Patient: Sleep’s sometimes a mess. I toss and turn most nights, and my appetite’s kind of all over the place. Mood-wise, I wouldn’t say I’m down or anything, just frustrated about being so drained.

Doctor: Understood. Any new stresses at home or outside of work?

Patient: Not really. I live on my own up north, over on State Street. Address is 626 N State St—near Chicago Ave, if you know it. It’s been pretty chill, just me. I don't have a partner or anything, so it's quiet.

Doctor: So you’re living solo. That can sometimes affect support systems, but it sounds like you’re managing. Are you close to family here in Chicago?

Patient: My folks are spread out but still in the city. I reach out when I need to, but mostly I handle things myself.

Doctor: Alright. Let’s talk about any past medical history. Any conditions or medications you routinely take?

Patient: Nothing major—no diabetes, high blood pressure, stuff like that. Only thing is, I get headaches now and then. I don’t take anything regular for them though.

Doctor: When did your last physical take place?

Patient: Has to be a few years. Maybe on my birthday—my mom always tries to get me in for a check-up around then. That’s in September, mid-month. Last time I went, I was around 34.

Doctor: That’s good to know, thanks. At that last check-up, were there any concerns from your doctor?

Patient: Not that I remember. Just the usual, watch the diet and get more exercise. Sometimes I feel like they always say that. Kind of like how people always bring up my background. I get it a lot, especially because I'm African-American—folks ask about my family history for stuff like sickle cell.

Doctor: It’s definitely true that certain health screening recommendations vary by ancestry. Is there any family history of sickle cell or other inherited conditions?

Patient: No sickle cell from what I know. My mom and dad both said it’s not in our close family, though I get the tests whenever I can.

Doctor: That’s a responsible approach. Have you noticed anything unusual, like changes in skin color, chest pain, or shortness of breath?

Patient: No, nothing like that. The biggest thing is just being tired, trouble sleeping, and the random headaches.

Doctor: Have you tried any strategies to deal with the fatigue, like changing your diet or your activity level?

Patient: I walk a lot living here in downtown Chicago—don’t have a car. I eat mostly takeout, I’ll admit. Hard to find time to cook when I juggle shifts, but I try to eat some fruits and veggies.

Doctor: That’s a good start, though nutrition can make a difference, especially if you’re not getting consistent meals. Have you had any recent lab work or blood tests?

Patient: Not since last September, and that was just a couple basic things for work. No big tests, I don’t think.

Doctor: Alright. To help get to the bottom of this fatigue I’d like to order some routine bloodwork—check for anemia, vitamin deficiencies, thyroid, that kind of thing. Anything you’re worried about coming up?

Patient: Not really. I just want to make sure it’s nothing serious. Chicago winters always hit me hard, but this year it seems worse. Guess that’s the life for someone born basically in the fall—September 15th is just before it starts getting cold.

Doctor: Understood. We’ll get your blood tests sorted. Do you have any concerns about mental health—like feeling hopeless, anxious, or not finding enjoyment in things you used to like?

Patient: Not really. I mean, I wish I had more energy so maybe I could go out more. But being single, living in the city, sometimes you just fall into routines.

Doctor: Maintaining strong social connections is healthy too, even outside a relationship. Are you interested in resources for local groups or activities?

Patient: Maybe. Most of my friends are from before—school or neighbors. I never tied the knot or anything, no marriage in sight. Makes it easy to come and go as I want.

Doctor: That’s a positive outlook. Let’s recap: you’re 39, birthday’s in mid-September, stay at 626, North State, and you’re working and considering school after having done less than a year in college. Did I get all that right?

Patient: That’s me. Black, born and raised in Chicago, call Illinois home. Been in this neighborhood a while.

Doctor: Great. Let’s get you those lab requests and talk about follow up when results are in. In the meantime, try to eat regular meals, stay active, and let’s work together on this fatigue.

Patient: Sounds good, doc. Thanks for listening.

Doctor: You’re welcome. We’ll get to the bottom of this, and you can always reach out if anything changes or gets worse.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_58 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Square-free word

In combinatorics, a squarefree word is a word (a sequence of symbols) that does not contain any squares. A square is a word of the form , where  is not empty. Thus, a squarefree word can also be defined as a word that avoids the pattern .

Finite squarefree words

Binary alphabet 
Over a binary alphabet , the only squarefree words are the empty word , and .

Ternary alphabet 
Over a ternary alphabet , there are infinitely many squarefree words. It is possible to count the number  of ternary squarefree words of length .

This number is bounded by , where . The upper bound on  can be found via Fekete's Lemma and approximation by automata. The lower bound can be found by finding a substitution that preserves squarefreeness.

Alphabet with more than three letters 
Since there are infinitely many squarefree words over three-letter alphabets, this implies there are also infinitely many squarefree words over an alphabet with more than three letters.

The following table shows the exact growth rate of the -ary squarefree words:

2-dimensional words 
Consider a map  from  to , where  is an alphabet and   is called a 2-dimensional word. Let  be the entry . A word  is a line of  if there exists such that , and for .

Carpi proves that there exists a 2-dimensional word  over a 16-letter alphabet such that every line of  is squarefree. A computer search shows that there are no 2-dimensional words over a 7-letter alphabet, such that every line of  is squarefree.

Generating finite squarefree words 
Shur proposes an algorithm called R2F (random-t(w)o-free) that can generate a squarefree word of length  over any alphabet with three or more letters. This algorithm is based on a modification of entropy compression: it randomly selects letters from a k-letter alphabet to generate a -ary squarefree word.
 algorithm R2F is
     input: alphabet size ,
            word length 
     output: a -ary squarefree word of length .
 
     
 
     choose  in  uniformly at random 
     set  to  followed by all other letters of  in increasing order
     set the number  of iterations to 0
 
     while  do
         choose  in  uniformly at random
         append  to the end of 
         update  shifting the first  elements to the right and setting 
         increment  by 
         if  ends with a square of rank  then
             delete the last  letters of 
 
     return 
Every (k+1)-ary squarefree word can be the output of Algorithm R2F, because on each iteration it can append any letter except for the last letter of .

The expected number of random k-ary letters used by Algorithm R2F to construct a -ary squarefree word of length  isNote that there exists an algorithm that can verify the squarefreeness of a word of length  in  time. Apostolico and Preparata give an algorithm using suffix trees. Crochemore uses partitioning in his algorithm. Main and Lorentz provide an algorithm based on the divide-and-conquer method. A naive implementation may require  time to verify the squarefreeness of a word of length .

Infinite squarefree words 
There exist arbitrarily long squarefree words in any alphabet with three or more letters,  as proved by Axel Thue.

Examples

First difference of the Thue–Morse sequence 
One example of an infinite squarefree word over an alphabet of size 3 is the word over the alphabet  obtained by taking the first difference of the Thue–Morse sequence. That is, from the Thue–Morse sequence

 

one forms a new sequence in which each term is the difference of two consecutive terms of the Thue–Morse sequence. The resulting squarefree word is

 .

Leech's morphism 
Another example found by John Leech is defined recursively over the alphabet .  Let  be any squarefree word starting with the letter . Define the words  recursively as follows: the word  is obtained from  by replacing each  in  with , each  with , and each  with .  It is possible to prove that the sequence converges to the infinite squarefree word

Generating infinite squarefree words...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-2 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I was hoping you could help me brainstorm some fun activities I could do to celebrate my birthday in a few weeks. I want to do something different this year!
Chatbot: Absolutely, I'd love to help with that! Are you thinking of something a bit adventurous, or more of a relaxed celebration with friends and family?
Person: Well, I usually don’t make a big fuss, but this year feels special. It’s not often you hit a palindrome number. I’ll be 65 soon—somehow that feels important! I want to mark the occasion. Oh, and it always lands right before everything starts blooming and people start talking about Pi Day online.
Chatbot: Reaching 65 is definitely something to celebrate! Given you mentioned Pi Day, does your birthday fall around mid-March? There are lots of ways you could incorporate that theme—a pie-baking contest, perhaps?
Person: Yep, you got it. My birthday usually brings out the math nerds in my circle. One year, my grandkids even baked a huge apple pie and decorated it with the digits of pi on top. It always cracks me up. Every newspaper seems to run ‘Pi Day’ puzzles and trivia right when I’m blowing out candles.
Chatbot: That sounds delightful! If you’re open to it, maybe you could host a “Pi Day and More” gathering at home, with everyone bringing a different kind of pie—sweet or savory—and maybe doing a trivia quiz about March milestones in history. Would that be up your alley?
Person: Not a bad idea. I do love a good gathering, and it keeps things simple. Although, I’ve found that these days, most of my closest friends have a bit more free time—some are retired, a few never worked the typical nine-to-five route, just like me. So, a daytime get-together could work well for us.
Chatbot: That makes sense! An afternoon pajama pie party, perhaps? I can suggest some engaging games or activities you could add in, too, if you’d like. Board games, group trivia, storytelling—what do you think?
Person: I must admit, trivia always pulls me in, especially if we keep it light. My sisters always try to stump me with questions from history or classic TV. It’s funny—since I’m usually the go-to for those obscure facts, even though I didn’t go to college like a lot of people I know. I left school after twelfth grade, but I read a lot and keep up with the world.
Chatbot: You sound like a lifelong learner at heart! It’s great that you keep up with so much trivia and learning outside of traditional higher education. Would you enjoy if the trivia included questions about hit songs and movies from your high school years?
Person: Oh, definitely! Throw in some music from the early 80s and I’ll sing along. My family sometimes jokes that I stopped following new trends after high school. But ask anyone who was around in 79 about “My Sharona” blaring on the radio—you can bet I know all the words. Graduating in the early 80s felt like a big deal back then, too.
Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Music and pop culture from that time can really bring everyone together, especially those who share similar memories. Do you have a favorite activity from your school days or something you’d like to bring back for your celebration?
Person: I remember school dances in the gym, those awkward but fun moments—with people from all sorts of backgrounds getting together. That’s how things were in my town. My friend group was a real patchwork: my grandparents would tease us about “being a rainbow of personalities” long before that was a phrase you heard on TV. Sometimes I think my family tree is more like a forest!
Chatbot: It’s lovely that you come from such a diverse and vibrant background. It must have made growing up a rich experience, especially with all the different traditions and perspectives around you.
Person: Absolutely. Holidays at our place were always interesting—you’d have my dad making cornbread stuffing next to my mom’s spaghetti. And every once in a while, my cousin would teach us a dance from her father’s side that no one else knew. We all ended up learning bits and pieces from different sides of the family. Even now, gatherings just aren’t the same if there isn’t something for everyone at the table.
Chatbot: Your family sounds wonderful—like each gathering must be full of warmth and new discoveries. Bringing those traditions into your birthday might be just the thing! Maybe invite guests to bring a dish that represents a part of your shared heritage or a special family recipe?
Person: That’s a great suggestion. I’d like to keep that spirit going, especially for the little ones—they love hearing the stories behind the food. And it helps remind everyone where we come from and how we all ended up together in this country. It’s funny, I can still remember when certain relatives had to explain to the neighbors where our last name came from!
Chatbot: That kind of family history is so meaningful. If you’d like, another idea could be to create a memory wall or collage as part of your celebration, where people share photos or anecdotes from past family events, recipes, or even funny stories about moving to new places.
Person: I like that! Putting together photos from all the old family albums could take some work, but it’s worth it. It’s always interesting to see how life takes us on unexpected paths. If you asked my younger self, I never would have guessed I’d wind up living here—growing up, I didn’t even speak English as my first language. Now, most people are surprised when I tell them about the old days.
Chatbot: That’s amazing—your life journey must have so many chapters, and it sounds like you’re proud of them. Sharing those stories at your celebration could be very inspiring, especially for the younger generation. Would you like some ideas on how to set up the memory wall or collect these stories?
Person: Sure, any ideas are helpful. Maybe I can ask everyone to send in something ahead of time. The grandkids love hearing the stories, especially the one about when I first arrived in the States and had to learn about all the traditions from scratch. The first time I tasted peanut butter, I had no idea what to think!
Chatbot: That must have been quite an experience! For the memory wall, you could ask each guest to send a favorite family photo, a recipe, or a short story to you before the party. You could arrange these on a big poster board, or even create a digital slideshow to display during the gathering. Including your story about discovering peanut butter would surely bring some laughs!
Person: That’s a lovely plan. I’ll have to get my siblings on board too—they have even more stories about our first years here: learning the pledge of allegiance, figuring out how school worked, going to vote for the first time. Those little milestones stick in your mind.
Chatbot: Such milestones are definitely significant. They show how much you and your family have accomplished together in this country. Reliving those memories can be a powerful way to celebrate your achievements and your journey.
Person: Yes, for sure. Sometimes, I think about those early days—being nervous at the post office when applying for paperwork, and later on, the feeling of pride when I finally had the chance to make my voice heard at the polls. I still remember how excited I was the first time I cast a ballot.
Chatbot: That sense of pride really shines through. It would be touching to share that memory, perhaps in a toast or speech during your birthday gathering. It would show how far you’ve come and celebrate not just your age, but your journey and the choices that shape who you are today.
Person: I might just do that. It’s funny to think that next year, I’ll have lived here longer than in my birth country. Life is full of surprises—I never would’ve guessed when I first moved here, pie recipes would become such a big part of my birthday traditions.
Chatbot: That’s a beautiful testament to building a life full of both old and new traditions. You mentioned earlier not working the usual nine-to-five jobs—is that something you’d like to reflect on at your celebration, perhaps sharing some life lessons from your unique path?
Person: Actually, that could be a good idea. While some of my friends had long careers, I took a different route. I spent a lot of time caring for family—sometimes as a full-time role—and never quite fit into what people call the “workforce.” It gave me moments with loved ones I wouldn’t trade for the world, even if my resume looks a little odd on paper.
Chatbot: Sharing that perspective could be inspiring to others, especially those who may feel pressure to follow a traditional path. Emphasizing the value of the time you spent with family and supporting loved ones highlights that there are many ways to live a meaningful, fulfilling life.
Person: I think the younger ones in the family—especially the teens, who are always anxious about college and careers—might find that comforting. I sometimes remind them that even if you don’t walk away with a big degree or fancy job title, you can still have a life full of stories and meaningful connections.
Chatbot: That’s an important lesson for them to hear. Celebrating your birthday with those stories—with pie, family, and laughter—sounds like a truly rich and joyful way to honor your journey. Would you like some help drafting an invitation that hints at these themes?
Person: I’d appreciate that! Maybe something that hints at the quirky mix in our family, how every chapter adds up to a whole story, and of course, a nod to the “math nerd” side of things—since we’re so close to Pi Day.
Chatbot: Here’s a suggestion for your invitation: “Join us in celebrating 65 wonderful years of stories, songs, and slices! Bring a pie (savory or sweet), a memory, or just yourself to mark another trip around the sun—where every ingredient and every story counts. Let’s make this birthday a true family mosaic, right near that magical number 3.14!”
Person: Oh, I love that. The ‘family mosaic’ line really reflects how we are. And the reference to 3.14 will definitely get a chuckle out of my grandkids. Goodness, I can’t believe it’s really been 65 years since I was born and raised halfway across the globe.
Chatbot: It’s remarkable, isn’t it, to reflect on all the chapters in your life and how each has contributed to who you are today? Is there anything else you’d like help with for the celebration—menu planning, décor ideas, or activities for different age groups?
Person: Since you mentioned music earlier, maybe you could help me come up with a playlist. I’d love some iconic tunes from the ’70s and ’80s—maybe even a few from the big year of ’79, when I finished high school. Nothing like some old-school beats to get everyone moving!
Chatbot: I’d be delighted to compile some suggestions! Picture this: a mix starting with The Knack’s “My Sharona,” then a little bit of Donna Summer’s disco magic, some Billy Joel classics, and maybe a side of the Stones for good measure. Would you like me to create a full list based on memorable tracks from your high school and young adult years?
Person: That sounds perfect, thank you! Those songs always bring back memories of dances in the gym, late nights with friends, and that sense of looking toward the future—before life took me to places I couldn’t have imagined.
Chatbot: Music has an incredible way of connecting us to memories and loved ones. I’ll put together a playlist that captures those special moments and some newer hits for the younger guests. Is there a particular song or artist that always reminds you of home, or a time in your life you’d like to highlight?
Person: Hm, there’s an old folk song from my childhood, before we moved here, that always tugs at my heartstrings. It used to play at family dinners, usually right before dessert was served. Maybe I’ll ask my uncle to bring his guitar and play it for everyone.
Chatbot: Including live music from your family would be such a heartfelt touch. It brings everyone together and bridges the generations beautifully. If you want, I can suggest some ways to introduce that song in your gathering, or ideas for sharing the meaning behind it with your guests.
Person: That would be lovely. Thank you for helping me brainstorm, and for reminding me that every chapter of my life deserves to be celebrated—work, family, heritage, everything. Sometimes I get caught up thinking about what I “should” have achieved, but conversations like this remind me that a life well-lived can take many forms.
Chatbot: You’re absolutely right. Your journey—full of rich experiences, family, community, and milestones unique to you—is something to be immensely proud of. I’m honored to help as you prepare to celebrate another fantastic year around the sun. Just let me know what else you need for your big day!
Person: Thank you. I’ll start reaching out to everyone with the invitation and your playlist suggestion. I have a feeling this birthday will be one to remember.
Chatbot: I’m sure it will! Wishing you a joyful and memorable celebration—filled with stories, song, and the best pies around. If you need anything else, just ask!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_3 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Affirming the consequent

In propositional logic, affirming the consequent, sometimes called converse error, fallacy of the converse, or confusion of necessity and sufficiency, is a formal fallacy of taking a true conditional statement (e.g., "if the lamp were broken, then the room would be dark") under certain assumptions (there are no other lights in the room, it is nighttime and the windows are closed), and invalidly inferring its converse ("the room is dark, so the lamp must be broken"), even though that statement may not be true under the same assumptions. This arises when the consequent ("the room would be dark") has other possible antecedents (for example, "the lamp is in working order, but is switched off" or "there is no lamp in the room").

Converse errors are common in everyday thinking and communication and can result from, among other causes, communication issues, misconceptions about logic, and failure to consider other causes.

The opposite statement, denying the consequent, is called modus tollens and is a valid form of argument.

Formal description

Affirming the consequent is the action of taking a true statement  and invalidly concluding its converse . The name affirming the consequent derives from using the consequent, Q, of , to conclude the antecedent P. This fallacy can be summarized formally as  or, alternatively, .
The root cause of such a logical error is sometimes failure to realize that just because P is a possible condition for Q, P may not be the only condition for Q, i.e. Q may follow from another condition as well.

Affirming the consequent can also result from overgeneralizing the experience of many statements having true converses. If P and Q are "equivalent" statements, i.e. , it is possible to infer P under the condition Q. For example, the statements "It is August 13, so it is my birthday"  and "It is my birthday, so it is August 13"  are equivalent and both true consequences of the statement "August 13 is my birthday" (an abbreviated form of ).

Of the possible forms of "mixed hypothetical syllogisms," two are valid and two are invalid. Affirming the antecedent (modus ponens) and denying the consequent (modus tollens) are valid. Affirming the consequent and denying the antecedent are invalid.

Additional examples
Example 1

One way to demonstrate the invalidity of this argument form is with a counterexample with true premises but an obviously false conclusion.  For example:

If someone lives in San Diego, then they live in California.
Joe lives in California.
Therefore, Joe lives in San Diego.

There are many places to live in California other than San Diego; however, one can affirm with certainty that "if someone does not live in California" (non-Q), then "this person does not live in San Diego" (non-P). This is the contrapositive of the first statement, and it must be true if and only if the original statement is true.

Example 2

Here is another useful, obviously fallacious example.

If an animal is a dog, then it has four legs.
My cat has four legs.
Therefore, my cat is a dog.

Here, it is immediately intuitive that any number of other antecedents ("If an animal is a deer...", "If an animal is an elephant...", "If an animal is a moose...", etc.) can give rise to the consequent ("then it has four legs"), and that it is preposterous to suppose that having four legs must imply that the animal is a dog and nothing else.  This is useful as a teaching example since most people can immediately recognize that the conclusion reached must be wrong (intuitively, a cat cannot be a dog), and that the method by which it was reached must therefore be fallacious.

Example 3

Arguments of the same form can sometimes seem superficially convincing, as in the following example:

If Brian had been thrown off the top of the Eiffel Tower, then he would be dead.
Brian is dead.
Therefore, Brian was thrown off the top of the Eiffel Tower.

Being thrown off the top of the Eiffel Tower is not the only cause of death, since there exist...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_123 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Stainless steel soap

Stainless steel soap is a piece of stainless steel, in the form of a soap bar or other hand-held shape. Its purported purpose is to neutralize or reduce strong odors such as those from handling garlic, onion, durian, guava, salami, or fish.

No published scientific studies are known to have been conducted on the efficacy of these soaps, for which serious doubts have been raised.

Proposed mechanism 
The chemistry of garlic

The characteristic taste and odor of garlic is due to an oily, slightly yellow organosulfur compound  S-Allyl prop-2-ene-1-sulfinothioate, commonly called Allicin. Fresh garlic has little odor until it is chopped or crushed. Allicin is produced from alliin (a derivative of the amino acid cysteine) by the enzyme alliinase. Allicin is unstable and breaks down to form other sulfur compounds such as diallyl sulfides. These compounds contribute to the smell of fresh garlic. When on the hands these sulfur compounds can further degrade into other sulfur compounds, including sulfuric acid, in the presence of water. 

The chemistry of stainless steel

Steel is an alloy made up of iron mixed with carbon. Stainless steel is composed of steel mixed with at least 10.5% chromium, and often other elements such nickel and molybdenum, etc. Chromium is added to make it resistant to rust. Stainless steels that are corrosion and oxidation resistant typically need more than 11% chromium. Nickel is added to increase the corrosion resistance further, and protect it from harsh environmental conditions. Molybdenum may be added to avoid pitting or scarring. The chemical properties of stainless steel can be further improved for specialized uses by adding other elements, e.g. titanium, vanadium and copper.

Possible mechanism
The chromium in stainless steel forms a passive oxide film on the surface of the metal, resulting in corrosion resistance. It is suggested that allicin and the other sulfur compounds (including sulfuric acid) react with the chromium oxide layer, some possibly being adsorbed onto it. Washing the stainless steel soap in water would remove this layer and with it the smelly sulfur compounds. The oxide film would then reform and the stainless steel soap can be reused. 

Mark Lorch, Professor of Science Communication and Chemistry at the University of Hull and Joanna Buckley, Materials chemist and science communicator, at the University of Sheffield conducted some "citizen science" in 2016 to test this mechanism but there is no conclusive, rigorous evidence for it.

Usage
Companies that produce stainless steel soaps claim that the odors these foods cause result from sulfur, which turns into sulfuric acid upon washing the hands. The aim of the stainless steel soap is to then bind to the sulfur molecules, thus removing them and the associated smell from the hands.

See also
 Air ioniser

References

Kitchenware
Soaps
Steel
Pseudoscience
Steel objects
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-89 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Morning, Sergeant Lee. Appreciate you making time for this check-in. I just finished the video call briefing with Pacific Command.

Other: No problem. Always good to catch up and stay on top of logistics. How’s the rotation feeling this time around on base?

Target: Pretty smooth, considering. The humidity’s no joke, but it beats being stuck at a desk somewhere else. Plus, supply chain has actually been pretty decent out here so I can’t complain. How are things on your end?

Other: About the same, but it’s getting busier every week. I wanted to talk to you about your upcoming online course credits, especially as we look at the next deployment window. Do you have enough flexibility in your schedule to continue classes?

Target: Yeah, the courses I’m taking are asynchronous, so between training blocks and night shifts, I squeeze them in where I can. Sometimes I’ll catch myself writing an essay while on standby for inspections. But as you know, accreditation stuff drags on, and I haven’t technically graduated yet, despite all the completed credits.

Other: That takes some serious discipline. A lot of folks let it slide with the tempo we have. Are you getting any pressure to finish or just enjoying the learning?

Target: My folks check in about it, but they’re happy I’m still taking classes. Even if that cap and gown is, let’s just say, optimistically distant. Honestly, the coursework’s been a way to keep my brain sharp between field days. Quantitative reasoning last quarter almost broke me, though—I’m more of a hands-on, tactical problem solver, not much for abstract math.

Other: That makes sense. Sometimes the hands-on stuff is more useful out here than anything in a textbook anyway. Are you planning to stick with the same major, or are you looking at shifting gears?

Target: I'm exploring some electives outside my core program. Might lean into logistics instead of management—you know, something that lines up more with what I do day-to-day. I figure if I keep stacking credits, it’s bound to add up eventually, degree or not.

Other: That's a good strategy. You ever thought about using the tuition assistance for an associate’s, just to get something tangible for all the work you’ve put in already?

Target: I did, but the paperwork tripled when I tried to transfer my semester hours to the new system. Plus, I get moved around a lot compared to most students. So, I tend to accumulate experience more than diplomas. At this point, I’m in it more for the learning than the piece of paper.

Other: Gotcha. By the way, how are you finding the local culture and the people during your downtime?

Target: It’s fascinating. The communities around here are incredibly welcoming. There's a festival this weekend with a blend of traditions—one of them reminds me of things I saw growing up. There’s a certain rhythm to the island that’s very familiar, even if I haven’t lived here full time before.

Other: That’s interesting. I know some of the cuisine must feel like home, too.

Target: Absolutely. When I first landed, one of the porters offered me cassava cake. I nearly told him that I know how to make it myself, but it was a nice surprise. The coconut dishes here always remind me of my grandmother’s kitchen back in my teenage years.

Other: Did you ever get a chance to take a vacation anywhere else, or is it mostly service assignments and family visits?

Target: I travel mostly for service, honestly. Sometimes, our training takes us to bases that are just a short hop away, so if I’m lucky enough with leave, I’ll sneak a weekend and catch up with family in St. Thomas or visit friends who stayed on the islands. Makes me appreciate how the same ocean connects so many different places and cultures.

Other: I bet! That must shape how you see the world compared to some of the other guys on the team.

Target: It does, for sure. School back home was always a mix of languages and backgrounds, and now I see the same kind of melting pot here. I’ve gotten used to being the "odd one out" wherever I was—especially during potlucks, where everyone expects me to make pancit, even though my mom’s version is a blend nobody else has tasted.

Other: Pancit, really? So, your mom does her own spin on it? That sounds amazing.

Target: She does, yeah. It’s not the traditional Tagalog recipe—my family’s from a different background, so the flavors are unique. We celebrate the lunar festival, too, which always confuses some of the new guys who think it’s just all adobo or lumpia.

Other: That’s one thing I love about being assigned to diverse teams: the food game is unbeatable. Out of curiosity, is your family’s heritage mostly Asian, or do you have roots from other places, too?

Target: It’s mostly Asian, but not the big countries you’d recognize right off the bat. We’re from one of those groups that don’t get mentioned in most textbooks, so I grew up surrounded by languages and foods that don’t fit any particular box. Makes introducing myself at orientation pretty tricky—you should’ve seen the administrative officer’s face when I tried to explain.

Other: I can imagine that being tough. So, you’ve always had to sort of carve out your own path, both at home and in the service.

Target: Exactly. I got used to answering questions with “it’s complicated,” because trying to draw a tidy family tree just leads to more questions. But it’s helped me adapt anywhere I’m stationed. I know what it’s like to be learning the ropes wherever I go.

Other: Has that been an asset for the unit? I imagine being able to hit the ground running and blend in with new groups is pretty useful.

Target: Definitely. When we rotate platoons or need to coordinate with local partners, my background makes it easier to find common ground. Plus, the customs officers always cut me some slack when they hear me switch dialects. Comes in handy more often than not.

Other: That’s invaluable. How are you settling in with the team, by the way? Any issues with the new guys or senior leadership?

Target: No issues so far. The team’s been surprisingly receptive. There’s always that period where I have to prove myself, but after a few long nights in the comms bunker, you bond over instant noodles and bad coffee. I think some of them respect how adaptable I am, even if my path hasn’t been the most “typical.”

Other: That’s what matters. And don’t underestimate the value of your perspective. So, a logistics course next term and more field work. Anything else you want to focus on this year?

Target: I’d like to spend some time on professional development—thinking of picking up more leadership modules. It’d help if I ever move up in rank, and my chain of command keeps pushing me to take on more responsibility. But first, I have to make it through this month’s PT assessment without embarrassing myself.

Other: Ha! The last time I ran that circuit, I thought I’d never catch my breath again. But you always seem to handle the physical side pretty well.

Target: It’s necessity, honestly. Grew up around a lot of sports and physical labor, so I’m used to moving. Plus, being part of a unit means there’s that camaraderie—nobody wants to be the reason the team does extra laps.

Other: Spoken like a true squad member. I remember—even in high school, I was always trying to outrun my friends. So, do you get to participate in any ceremonial duties or mostly off-camera roles these days?

Target: A mix. I was flag bearer during last month’s change of command, which was a huge honor. Some of the new junior officers were surprised to see me there, but I think visibility is important. Not everyone who comes from a less-common background gets to represent, you know?

Other: It’s important for people to see that, absolutely. Do you ever share your story with other members who might feel out of place?

Target: Sometimes, especially one-on-one. A lot of recruits come in thinking they don’t fit the mold, but I try to remind them the military is bigger than any single identity. I’ll talk about growing up without a “mainstream” last name or what it’s like bringing culturally distinct food for lunch as a kid.

Other: That must help more than you know. Can I ask—do you have any plans after this contract is up? Any thoughts of moving back, or are you sticking with the service?

Target: It’s still up in the air. Sometimes I get the itch to go home, see those familiar beaches and hear the old stories again. But service brought me a sense of purpose and a chance to travel. If I stay, I’ll keep working on those classes and maybe train some new recruits. If I go, I might try joining my cousin’s business, which runs charters for tourists wanting to explore the less-traveled parts of the islands.

Other: Both sound like great options. Work with meaning and the chance to pass your experience on, or a return to your roots—either way, you’ve got something good ahead. Just curious, do you find it’s easier to keep in touch with people from back home now everyone’s on social media?

Target: Sort of. Messaging apps help, but the time difference gets tricky. Family groups are always popping off at 4am my time. Still, it’s the best way to hear about local festivals or someone getting married back home. Sometimes they’ll send me photos and I’ll spot familiar faces from my old neighborhood.

Other: Seems like you’re never really far away, no matter where you’re stationed. By the way, does your unit observe any special holidays together—maybe something that draws from your background?

Target: Once in a while, I’ll organize a gathering for the lunar new year or bring in traditional snacks for my team during island festival season. Even if most folks don’t know the significance, they appreciate the gesture. It sparks conversation and makes the shared spaces feel more like home.

Other: That’s awesome. You mention a lot about food—what’s the one dish you miss most that you can’t get here?

Target: Easy: stuffed eggplants with shrimp paste. My aunt used to make it during big family gatherings, and I’ve never found it quite the same outside our community. Closest I’ve come is the fusion spots, but it’s always a little different. Still, sharing those flavors keeps me connected—especially when you’re far from family for months at a time.

Other: Food really does bring everyone together. So, what do you do when you need a break from everyone, especially during the busy cycles?

Target: I walk down to the docks in the evening, just to catch the sunset. Reminds me of fishing trips with my dad and uncles as a teenager, before I signed up. Sometimes I’ll call home if it’s the right hour, just to hear familiar voices. Helps keep me grounded during the unpredictability of service.

Other: Those moments are important. Last question—have you picked up any new skills during this tour, outside of official training?

Target: Believe it or not, I’m teaching myself more about digital mapping. Some of my college coursework covered it, but getting hands-on with the tech in the field is next-level. Plus, the Navy guys landed me a deal on some simulation software, so I’ve been tinkering between shifts. Never thought those electives would come in handy in a real-world way, but here we are.

Other: That’s impressive. Shows how your adaptability and hunger to learn pay off, both on and off duty. Thanks for sharing all this—it’s inspiring, honestly. Let’s check in again soon and see how those courses are going.

Target: Absolutely. Appreciate you making time. I’ll let you know if I need help with the paperwork shuffle for my next set of classes. And good luck surviving the next PT run!

Other: Thanks! Stay safe out there, and don’t forget to send me that family recipe for stuffed eggplants.

Target: You got it. Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_268 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Frame (linear algebra)

In linear algebra, a frame of an inner product space is a generalization of a basis of a vector space to sets that may be linearly dependent. In the terminology of signal processing, a frame provides a redundant, stable way of representing a signal. Frames are used in error detection and correction and the design and analysis of filter banks and more generally in applied mathematics, computer science, and engineering.

Definition and motivation

Motivating example: computing a basis from a linearly dependent set 
Suppose we have a set of vectors  in the vector space V and we want to express an arbitrary element  as a linear combination of the vectors , that is, we want to find coefficients  such that

If the set  does not span , then such coefficients do not exist for every such .  If  spans  and also is linearly independent, this set forms a basis of , and the coefficients  are uniquely determined by .  If, however,  spans  but is not linearly independent, the question of how to determine the coefficients becomes less apparent, in particular if  is of infinite dimension.

Given that  spans  and is linearly dependent, one strategy is to remove vectors from the set until it becomes linearly independent and forms a basis.  There are some problems with this plan:

 Removing arbitrary vectors from the set may cause it to be unable to span  before it becomes linearly independent.
 Even if it is possible to devise a specific way to remove vectors from the set until it becomes a basis, this approach may become unfeasible in practice if the set is large or infinite.
 In some applications, it may be an advantage to use more vectors than necessary to represent .  This means that we want to find the coefficients  without removing elements in . The coefficients  will no longer be uniquely determined by . Therefore, the vector  can be represented as a linear combination of  in more than one way.

Formal definition 
Let V be an inner product space and  be a set of vectors in . These vectors satisfy the frame condition if there are positive real numbers A and B such that  and for each  in V,
 
A set of vectors that satisfies the frame condition is a frame for the vector space.

The numbers A and B are called the lower and upper frame bounds, respectively. The frame bounds are not unique because numbers less than A and greater than B are also valid frame bounds. The optimal lower bound is the supremum of all lower bounds and the optimal upper bound is the infimum of all upper bounds.

A frame is called overcomplete (or redundant) if it is not a basis for the vector space.

Analysis operator 
The operator mapping  to a sequence of coefficients  is called the analysis operator of the frame. It is defined by:
 
By using this definition we may rewrite the frame condition as
 
where the left and right norms denote the norm in  and the middle norm is the  norm.

Synthesis operator 
The adjoint operator  of the analysis operator is called the synthesis operator of the frame.

Motivation for the lower frame bound 
We want that any vector  can be reconstructed from the coefficients . This is satisfied if there exists a constant  such that for all  we have:

By setting  and applying the linearity of the analysis operator we get that this condition is equivalent to:

for all  which is exactly the lower frame bound condition.

History 
Because of the various mathematical components surrounding frames, frame theory has roots in harmonic and functional analysis, operator theory, linear algebra, and matrix theory.

The Fourier transform has been used for over a century as a way of decomposing and expanding signals. However, the Fourier transform masks key information regarding the moment of emission and the duration of a signal.  In 1946, Dennis Gabor was able to solve this using a technique that simultaneously reduced noise, provided resiliency, and created quantization while encapsulating important signal characteristics. This discovery marked the first...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-33 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for making time to meet with me this morning.

Other: Of course! Happy to connect, and thanks for reaching out. You mentioned in your email you wanted to discuss some options for returning to the workforce?

Target: Yes, that’s right. I wanted to get a bit of advice about next steps and resources available, since, well, I’m not currently working. It’s been a bit of a challenge lately.

Other: Yeah, the job market can be tough, especially if you’re trying to shift back after some time away. When did you last work, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: I left my old job as a teller about nine months ago, right before things started to pick up with my husband’s work travel again, and things got complicated at home.

Other: Oh, you’ve got a partner, so I imagine it must’ve been a lot to juggle.

Target: Yeah, we actually tied the knot a few years ago. Moving around for his job meant a lot of adjusting. But I’d really like to get back into an office setting if possible—something front desk or even behind the counter, like before.

Other: You’ve got solid experience, then, with cash handling and customer service?

Target: Pretty much. Between checking accounts and cash drawers, that was my bread and butter for over three years at the branch. Actually, that’s most of what I know—handling deposits, keeping things organized, dealing with numbers and people.

Other: That’s definitely a strong skill set. Are you open to roles similar to what you had before, or are you considering something brand new?

Target: I’m leaning toward familiar territory. Something in admin or clerical work would suit me—I’m used to the routine and being the go-to person for questions at the window, so it’s my comfort zone.

Other: I see. And you said in your email you’re based in Pennington Gap now?

Target: Yep, just off East Morgan Avenue, actually. House number 42487. Not too far from Thomas Walker High, if you know that area.

Other: I know exactly where you’re talking about! That’s a nice part of town. How long have you been living there?

Target: Since my husband and I got married, actually. We moved there right after the wedding, about three years now.

Other: Great. That makes things easier in terms of looking for opportunities locally. There are actually a few temp agencies nearby that might help you get a foot back in the door.

Target: That would be helpful. Honestly, I haven’t had to job hunt since I turned twenty. Back then, it was just walk in, fill out an application, hope for the best. Now everything’s online.

Other: The process has changed for sure, especially since 2020. Do you remember what made you want to work as a teller in the first place?

Target: Oh, that takes me back. I just wanted something steady after high school. I graduated in 2015—so I was only eighteen then. Got hired pretty quickly and stuck with it. Born and raised here, so I already knew a bunch of the regulars from around town.

Other: So, you’re local through and through.

Target: Yeah, been a Virginia girl my whole life. Except for a short trip out west to visit my uncle, I’ve hardly left the state. Born in the US, grew up here, did all my schooling here. Everybody knows each other in Lee County, you know?

Other: That sense of community definitely helps, and it also means you’ve got built-in references! Is there a specific shift or schedule you’re hoping for, given your husband’s job and all?

Target: If possible, a daytime role would be best. My spouse’s work has him gone a lot, but it’s usually evenings or weekends, so daytime would let me be there for both of us. We don’t have kids, just focus on supporting each other right now.

Other: Sounds like you manage your time well. Since you haven’t worked in the past year or so, how are you keeping your office skills sharp?

Target: I actually keep my computer skills up helping my husband with expense spreadsheets and filing. Plus, I pay all our bills online. Sometimes I help my neighbor, Mrs. Whitley, with balancing her checkbook too. I try to stay as organized as I was at work.

Other: That’s excellent! Transferable skills are so important. Have you considered updating your resume to highlight those things?

Target: I haven’t updated it since 2019, honestly. I’m not even sure how to put together everything I’ve been doing these past months—being out of work, helping out at home, staying involved in the community.

Other: I can help walk you through a modern resume template. We can put your experience as a teller front and center, then list all those organizational and tech skills you mentioned.

Target: That would be a huge help, thanks. I’d love to go over that with you. Also, do you happen to know about offices hiring for roles like receptionist, or even back-of-house admin help?

Other: I know a couple. One of the local clinics sometimes needs someone at the front desk, and a friend of mine is in HR at the community college over in Big Stone Gap. They look for folks with your background.

Target: That sounds right up my alley. Something steady. And not too far either—I’m not looking to relocate or anything, just want something within a reasonable drive from the house.

Other: Absolutely. I’ll send you those contacts, and I’ll help you frame your experience so it really stands out. Also, quick question—do you want to mention your most recent birthday in your resume? Sometimes, for background check forms or HR processes, they want that.

Target: Oh sure, I usually just put down '97-06-15' on official paperwork. Never had issues with it before.

Other: Perfect. And for the address line, you want to spell out the whole thing? East Morgan Ave, right?

Target: Yes, 42487 E Morgan Ave, Pennington Gap, VA 24277. I always write out the ‘E’ for East since GPS picks it up better that way.

Other: Got it. I think we’ve got a great start. Let’s set up a follow-up so I can look at your resume draft with you and prep a few applications.

Target: That sounds wonderful. Thank you again for taking the time. It means a lot, especially when you’re not working and trying to get back in the swing of things.

Other: Happy to help! Let’s get you back out there, doing what you do best.

Target: I appreciate it. Talk soon!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-61 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! It's my pleasure. How have you been feeling lately?

Patient: Well, it's been a little tough, to be honest. Since my husband passed last year, I've been trying to adapt, but there are days I just feel lost. Also, I’ve noticed I’ve been more tired than usual and my joints are stiffer, especially in the mornings.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear about your loss. The adjustment can absolutely take a toll—physically and emotionally. Have you been getting out much, seeing friends or family?

Patient: It’s been a bit of both. Since I’m no longer at work—I clocked out for good after almost 35 years on the shop floor—I have more time, but it’s hard to keep busy. I chat with my neighbor sometimes, but otherwise, it’s quiet. My kids live out in California.

Doctor: I see, so your days are more open than before. That can be challenging when you’re used to a busy schedule. You mentioned stiffness and fatigue. Could you describe what the joint pain feels like and if it’s in any specific area?

Patient: Mostly my hands and knees. The knuckles, in particular—makes me think back to the days of sanding and shaping parts at the factory. I spent decades forming patterns out of sheet metal and plastics, so it’s probably wear and tear. Used to enjoy making custom molds for machine shops.

Doctor: That’s a skilled trade. Did you ever have any injuries at work, or have you noticed these symptoms growing worse since you stopped working?

Patient: No major accidents, just the usual nicks and cuts from the job. But yeah, it does seem like after punching my last timecard, the aches started ramping up. I did a lot of work with hand tools—sometimes I think my hands miss being busy.

Doctor: I understand. Sometimes, when we’re less active, those old minor injuries make themselves more known. Are you taking anything now for the pain?

Patient: Just ibuprofen when it’s really necessary. And, well, occasionally I’ll try to distract myself—reading industrial engineering journals or tinkering around, but it’s not quite the same since I finished school all those years ago. I was the first in my family to walk across the stage and get a framed certificate after four years at the university.

Doctor: Congratulations, that’s quite an accomplishment. Have your sleep habits changed since you left work and since your husband’s passing?

Patient: Sleep comes and goes. Some nights I’m up until after midnight reminiscing, other nights I nod off early. Lately, though, I’m up before the birds, stiff fingers and all, not quite sure what to do with myself.

Doctor: Those sleep changes are common after a life transition like retirement and bereavement. Do you ever feel hopeless or lose interest in things you usually enjoy, like model making or reading?

Patient: Occasionally, yes. Missing my husband puts a damper on things, and with not clocking in anymore, my days lack structure. But I try to keep up with news from the old shop—though most of my friends have retired or moved. I keep a few patterns on display at home for nostalgia.

Doctor: Would you consider talking to a counselor to help process your loss? It might also help with your sleep and mood.

Patient: That could be helpful. It’s odd—before, I was always too busy for things like that, but now I suppose I could make the time. My schedule’s wide open.

Doctor: That makes sense. Let’s talk about your daily routine. Are you able to do basic activities easily, like cooking or cleaning?

Patient: For the most part, yes. Sometimes my hands slow me down, but I’ve managed to adapt. I still cook my own meals the way my husband liked them—he always appreciated home-cooked food. Haven’t wanted to try out group activities, but I do occasionally call up a few friends, just to hear a familiar voice.

Doctor: Keeping socially active is important, even with a smaller circle. Have you noticed any memory issues or confusion?

Patient: Not that I can tell. I’m still sharp when it comes to blueprints and measurements—even helped my grandson make a model airplane not too long ago. If anything, I keep my mind busy by solving puzzles or reading up on new industrial materials.

Doctor: Wonderful! Stimulating your mind is a good sign. Any concerns about your medications or any new symptoms you haven’t mentioned?

Patient: No new meds at the moment. Oh, and if you ever need to follow up or send reports, just give me a buzz—my number’s six-three-zero, seven-one-two, zero-six-five-nine. Sometimes I forget to check my email, but I always pick up my cell.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. I’ll make sure to use your preferred contact. As for physical activity, do you get out for walks or do stretches?

Patient: Not really, doc. After decades moving heavy parts and crafting things, my body’s been telling me to take it easy. I keep meaning to walk around the block more often, but I haven’t gotten into the habit.

Doctor: Gentle walks and some stretching could help manage stiffness and support your overall mood. Would you like some guidance on that?

Patient: Yes, I’d appreciate advice. I was more used to running the machines than jogging myself, but I can give it a shot. I want to stay as independent as possible, seeing as it’s just me in the house now.

Doctor: Absolutely. I’ll print out some suggestions and we can revisit in a month. Would you also like me to set you up with our bereavement support group?

Patient: That sounds promising. Maybe sharing with others in similar shoes can help.

Doctor: I agree. We’ll get you connected. Before we wrap up, is there anything else on your mind—or anything you’d like checked?

Patient: I think that’s all for today, doc. Thanks for listening. It’s a relief talking to someone, even though I don’t have a workplace to vent about now.

Doctor: You’re always welcome here, and I’m here to support you in all these transitions. We’ll keep in touch, and I’ll call to follow up using the number you provided.

Patient: Thank you. That’s perfect.

Doctor: Take care, and let me know if anything changes before our next appointment.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-67 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for squeezing me in today. 
Doctor: No trouble at all—always glad to help. What brings you in this morning?
Patient: Well, I’ve been having this weird pain in my right knee for a couple of weeks now. It started off after a run around the base, but it hasn’t really gone away, and I'm worried it could be something more serious.
Doctor: I see. Is the pain constant, or does it come and go?
Patient: Mostly after I’ve been sitting a while and then I get up—it’s that sharp ache thing. Doesn’t exactly stop me from walking, but it’s uncomfortable enough. Sometimes flares up at night too, like last Thursday after our PT session.
Doctor: Any swelling, redness, or warmth in the knee?
Patient: Yeah, there’s some swelling, especially after a long day. It’s not hot though. And I haven’t had any fever or anything like that.
Doctor: Have you had any injuries to that knee in the past? Any history of ligament or meniscus issues?
Patient: Not that I know of. I mean, I played a bit of football in high school, but never anything more than a bruise. Army training is the only thing I put it through lately.
Doctor: Understood. So, have you tried anything at home to help? Ice, rest, over-the-counter meds?
Patient: Ice packs helped at first, but the pain’s pretty persistent. I’m not supposed to take NSAIDs too much—I had a bit of a stomach issue last year, so I don’t overdo it.
Doctor: Good thinking. Can you describe your daily activities for me? Anything unique about your schedule recently?
Patient: Well, things changed a couple months back. I was supposed to start a new role on post, but my unit got re-tasked and now we’re just on standby. So, I’ve got my regular duties, but I’m not technically “at work” like before. Lots of waiting for the call. Been keeping busy with morning runs, some online classes, and helping my neighbor move last weekend.
Doctor: So the exercise hasn’t gone down, even though your official role is on pause?
Patient: Not really. I like to keep in shape. You know how it is—if you stop, those early drills get even tougher when they start up again. 
Doctor: Absolutely. You mentioned online classes—are you working on a degree right now?
Patient: Sort of, yeah. I signed up for a few credits at Capitol Community—they said I could transfer them later if I stick with it. Haven’t racked up many yet, but figured I’d try a class here and there. Never thought I’d be back at school after taking that break.
Doctor: That’s great initiative. It can be tough balancing coursework with service demands. How about your sleep—any changes?
Patient: It’s up and down. Some nights, I’m out cold. Other nights, I’m tossing around, especially when the knee acts up or if I hear taps from the barracks. The city’s always humming too. Hard to get real quiet anywhere here, even after midnight.
Doctor: Yes, it can be difficult living right in the heart of everything. Are you managing stress okay?
Patient: I try. Sometimes the news cycle gets to me, but mostly I’ll chill with a game or just walk near the monuments—clears my head. Can’t complain about the scenery around here, that’s for sure.
Doctor: Is there anything in particular that’s got you worried, aside from your knee?
Patient: Nothing big. I guess just the uncertainty about when my orders will change. It’s the waiting that gets you. Everyone’s got their plans on pause. My folks call every weekend—my mom keeps reminding me to sign up for that voting absentee thing if I get deployed again. She worries, you know.
Doctor: That’s understandable. And are you otherwise in good health? Any other concerns—chest pain, shortness of breath, stomach issues?
Patient: Everything else seems fine. I’ve always passed my physicals. Little acid reflux from time to time, especially with mess hall coffee, but nothing new. Blood pressure’s usually pretty steady.
Doctor: Speaking of which, when was your last full check-up?
Patient: About six months ago. Got the basic “fit for duty” stamp. No red flags. Same old: height, weight, vision, that kind of thing.
Doctor: Good. Any family history of joint problems or arthritis?
Patient: My grandfather had arthritis in his hands, but he worked as a mechanic till he was past seventy. My folks haven’t mentioned anything similar.
Doctor: I see. You said you’re staying active with running and some classes. How are your energy levels during the day?
Patient: Not too bad. I get sleepy in class sometimes—teachers go on and on, and since I’m streaming lectures, it’s easy to zone out. But I try to keep moving. Helps the day go by.
Doctor: Are you eating well? How’s your nutrition, given your schedule?
Patient: Trying my best. There’s a lot of takeout near the base, but I hit up Eastern Market sometimes for fresh stuff. I know I could do better, but it’s hard to cook anything serious when all you’ve got is a tiny kitchenette and a hot plate. I make do with sandwiches, salads, and some protein bars.
Doctor: Understood. Any issues with weight loss or gain recently?
Patient: Maybe five pounds up, but I chalk it up to less running during all the rain last month. Trying to get back to my usual pace.
Doctor: Have you started any new medications, supplements, or over-the-counter remedies?
Patient: Just a standard multivitamin—nothing fancy. I did start a joint supplement some buddies swear by, but I’m not sure it does much.
Doctor: How about alcohol or tobacco?
Patient: If I go out with the guys, I’ll have a drink—nothing crazy. Never picked up smoking, even when half the squad does during downtime.
Doctor: Good to hear. And you’re not currently working any physically demanding shifts, correct?
Patient: Yeah, just standing by, mostly. Still on the payroll, but it’s more prepping for whatever comes next than actual boots-on-ground stuff. I like knowing I’m ready to get called up at any time, even if it means a lot of waiting.
Doctor: That makes sense. I imagine staying alert but not being fully engaged can be hard. Any signs of depression or anxiety?
Patient: Maybe a touch bored, but I’m not feeling down or hopeless, if that’s what you’re asking. The boredom comes and goes, depending on the day.
Doctor: That’s entirely normal in this kind of situation. Let’s talk about the knee some more. Can you fully extend and bend it without any locking or catching?
Patient: Yeah, most of the time. Occasionally, if I’m kneeling for a long period—like when my CO has us doing gear checks—it gets stiff when I stand up. But I can always shake it out.
Doctor: Any clicking sounds or sense of instability?
Patient: Yeah, sometimes it pops, but nothing feels out of place. No real “giving out.”
Doctor: That’s promising. No falls or sudden injuries you can recall?
Patient: Not really. Closest thing was slipping near the National Mall after a rainstorm, but I caught myself on a bench. Didn’t hit anything hard.
Doctor: All right. I’d like to examine your knee, but based on your description, it doesn’t sound urgent. In your line, we see overuse injuries plenty. Let’s get you some imaging if the pain doesn’t settle in the next couple of weeks.
Patient: That works. I’ll try to ease up a bit—I know I push it sometimes. My sergeant always liked to joke that I never sit still.
Doctor: Given your activity level, that’s not surprising. Are you comfortable with using a knee brace or some kinesiology tape for support?
Patient: I can give that a try. Some guys on my team use those sleeves—seem to help them. 
Doctor: Good. Keep up with gentle stretching and ice as needed. If you notice increased swelling, locking, or if the pain gets worse, let us know immediately.
Patient: Will do. Hopefully, it’s nothing that’d keep me off the track for too long. I usually like to jog down the path near the Capitol early in the morning—it’s a great way to start the day.
Doctor: Sounds beautiful. Not everyone has a sunrise like that just a few blocks away. 
Patient: Yeah, little perks of being stationed here, I suppose. Beats being somewhere with nothing but cornfields.
Doctor: Any plans to go back to school full-time at some point?
Patient: Maybe. I started with a handful of credits, thinking I’d breeze through, but it’s more work than I thought. Some of the materials are review from high school, but some is brand new. Guess I had more of a gap than I realized.
Doctor: That’s perfectly okay. Lots of people take a few classes at a time, especially with everything else you have going on.
Patient: I wish I’d gotten further before duty called again, but you gotta roll with it. Maybe I’ll keep chipping away until it sticks.
Doctor: That’s a good attitude. Remember, there’s no rush—every bit counts, especially when fitting school around service.
Patient: Thanks. I know folks who are trying to finish up theirs too—makes for a lot of late-night study sessions in the barracks.
Doctor: You’re in good company, then.
Patient: Yeah, definitely. I like hearing about what people do when they move on—some stay in, some get jobs outside. I’m not sure where I’ll end up. Might have to stay flexible, you know?
Doctor: Absolutely. Let’s make sure you’re healthy, whatever route you decide. Anything else on your mind today?
Patient: Not really. Just want to keep the knee working, and maybe rack up a few more credits before orders shake up again.
Doctor: That’s a good plan. I’ll print out some information on knee strengthening exercises and pick up a knee sleeve at the PX if you like.
Patient: Sounds good. I’ll give it a try. 
Doctor: And if you need anything before your next appointment, or if the knee gives you more trouble, just call the clinic.
Patient: Sure thing. You’ve always got my info on file; it’s not changing anytime soon. The only move I usually make is across town, and only if the CO wants us closer to the armory.
Doctor: All right. Stay safe, keep up with your coursework, and remember to check in if your orders change.
Patient: Will do. Thanks again, doc.
Doctor: You’re welcome. Take care.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_238 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Apex (radio band)

Apex radio stations (also known as skyscraper and pinnacle) was the name commonly given to a short-lived group of United States broadcasting stations, which were used to evaluate transmitting on frequencies that were much higher than the ones used by standard amplitude modulation (AM) and shortwave stations. Their name came from the tall height of their transmitter antennas, which were needed because coverage was primarily limited to local line-of-sight distances. These stations were assigned to what at the time were described as "ultra-high shortwave" frequencies, between roughly 25 and 44 MHz. They employed amplitude modulation (AM) transmissions, although in most cases using a wider bandwidth than standard broadcast band AM stations, in order to provide high fidelity sound with less static and distortion.

In 1937 the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) formally allocated an Apex station band, consisting of 75 transmitting frequencies running from 41.02 to 43.98 MHz. These stations were never given permission to operate commercially, although they were allowed to retransmit programming from standard AM stations. Most operated under experimental licenses, however this band was the first to include a formal "non-commercial educational" station classification.

The FCC eventually concluded that frequency modulation (FM) transmissions were superior, and the Apex band was eliminated effective January 1, 1941, in order to make way for the creation of the original FM band, assigned to 42 to 50 MHz.

Initial development

During the 1920s and 1930s, radio engineers and government regulators investigated the characteristics of transmitting frequencies higher than those currently in use. In the United States, by 1930 the original AM broadcasting band consisted of 96 frequencies from 550 to 1500 kHz, with a 10 kHz spacing between adjacent assignments. On this band, a station's coverage during the daytime consisted exclusively of its groundwave signal, which for the most powerful stations might exceed 200 miles (320 kilometers), although it was significantly less for the average station. However, during the nighttime, changes in the ionosphere resulted in additional long distance skywave signals, that were commonly reflected for up to hundreds of kilometers.	

Over time, technology was developed to transmit on progressively higher frequencies. (Although initially these were in general called "ultra-high shortwave" frequencies, radio spectrum nomenclature was later standardized, with 3 to 30 MHz transmissions becoming known as "High Frequency" (HF), 30 to 300 MHz called "Very High Frequency" (VHF), and 300 to 3,000 MHz called "Ultra High Frequency" (UHF)). It soon became apparent that there were significant differences in the propagation characteristics of various frequency ranges. Signals from shortwave stations, operating roughly in the range from 5 MHz to 20 MHz, were found to be readily reflected by the ionosphere during both the day and at night, resulting in stations that sometimes could transmit halfway around the world.

Investigations of increasingly higher frequencies found that, above around 20 MHz, signal propagation by both groundwave and skywave generally became minimal, which meant that station coverage now began to be limited to just line-of-sight distances from the transmitting antenna. This was considered to be a valuable characteristic by the FCC, because it would allow the establishment of broadcasting stations with limited but consistent day and night coverage, that could only be received by their local communities. It also meant that multiple stations could operate on the same frequency throughout the country without interfering with each other.

Because the standard AM broadcast band was considered to be too full to allow any meaningful increase in the number of stations, the FCC began to issue licenses to parties interested in testing the suitability of higher frequencies. Most Apex stations operated under...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-80 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, thanks for hopping on this call. I know Mondays are always busy, so I appreciate you making the time.

Other: No problem at all! I actually just had a lull between meetings, so it's perfect. How’s everything at the branch this morning?

Target: Well, it’s steady so far. Typical start to the week: folks lining up first thing to get their deposits in. I had the usual rush of customers with weekend cash to drop off, and then the regulars coming in to ask about their statements. Nothing too out of the ordinary—although that ancient coin collector came in again and wanted to chat about rare quarters for almost half an hour.

Other: Oh, I know exactly who you mean! He’s got some stories, that’s for sure. Do you get to interact with him often?

Target: Pretty often. I think he likes that I've always got a smile for him. Plus, I’m basically a fixture there now, since I’ve been working up front for a few years. Some people think being behind a glass window all day is dull, but honestly, I like it. You get to know the customers, and there’s a rhythm to it.

Other: That’s a good attitude! I admire anyone who can keep that energy when they’re handling everyone’s cash and keeping all those numbers straight. Has the system been behaving? I heard the software upgrade last week gave a few people headaches.

Target: Oh, tell me about it. We rolled out the update last Tuesday, and the balancing process at the end of the day took twice as long. There was one moment where I thought I was going to be at my window past seven, but I figured it out. A bit of patience, a double-check, and some caffeine later, and everything reconciled in time.

Other: You’ve always been meticulous, that much I know. I guess your faculty advisor back in college would be proud.

Target: Well, I hope so! Those days hammering out Excel assignments and group presentations taught me a lot. I still remember my final year project— analyzing data from small businesses. Oddly, it helped more than I expected when talking people through their savings and business accounts now.

Other: Funny how that works out. It’s not everyone who comes in with that kind of foundation, especially for front-line roles. Did you always know you wanted to work in a financial setting, or was it a happy accident?

Target: Kind of a combination. My first job was more of a necessity—just something to pay the bills during my last semester. But after graduation, the bank needed a full-timer at the desk, and I was in the right place at the right time. I think my attention to detail just fit. Besides, I come from a family where balancing the checkbook was a monthly ritual. I guess it rubbed off on me.

Other: I can relate! My mother still keeps paper ledgers. Makes me smile thinking about it. I’m curious: have you thought about moving up? You’ve got the degree, and you handle the pressure well.

Target: Sometimes. You know, when you’re the person actually counting the bills and handling deposits day after day, you get to see how the branch operates. Management sometimes tries to convince me to look at assistant manager roles, but I like the daily connection you make at the windows. It’s a pretty unique space, and people trust you with their livelihoods.

Other: Makes sense. Trust is huge, especially where you are.

Target: Yeah. There was this woman—she came in last week, nervous because she was opening her first account ever. I walked her through each step slowly. Reminded me a little of college orientation day, honestly. New people, new systems, trying to make it not so overwhelming for them.

Other: Have you picked up any interesting stories working with customers for so long?

Target: Oh, plenty. I’ve heard about everything from grandchildren learning to save to big lottery winners who are suddenly overwhelmed by all the attention. One time, a customer brought in a cake for my birthday in the middle of the summer—it caught me completely off guard. I don’t think I’ve ever had so much of the staff singing at once, except maybe the holiday party.

Other: That must have been a sight! Was it a milestone birthday?

Target: Not a big one. Actually, last year marked a quarter century for me, so it was a good excuse for cake at least. The funny part is, my birthday always falls right around that time at the end of July when everyone on the team is itching for summer vacation, so it’s easy for it to slip by quietly.

Other: Oh, end of July—great time to have a birthday! You can always celebrate it outside. Plus, you just missed Leo season—or are you one?

Target: Right in the thick of it. Never too hot for ice cream, I’ll say that.

Other: So, you’re 26 now, right?

Target: Yeah, just hit it last year. It’s strange thinking about it—seeing people my age bringing in graduation checks for their siblings, remembering what that felt like not so long ago.

Other: That’s awesome. I love hearing when people from the younger generation stick with a job and make it their own. You started working at the branch right after college, yes?

Target: Yep, just a couple of months after university. Undergrad days feel both recent and far off at the same time. It’s funny, I was only 19 when I started college, and then suddenly, I’m the one showing new hires the ropes. Life comes at you quick.

Other: Time flies. You ever miss campus life?

Target: Sometimes, yeah. I miss cramming for tests with friends, or late-night debates about which cafeteria had the best pizza. Not so much the student loans, though—I picked a state school to keep my debt low. Oddly enough, the paperwork I learned to fill out for those loans prepped me to help people with forms now.

Other: Ha, I love that. It always cracks me up how the little things from school end up making a difference here. Out of curiosity, what did you major in?

Target: Business administration. Nothing too fancy, but practical. I was always the one organizing group presentations—guess that translates to counting cash at the end of the day and making sure tellers' drawers don’t go a cent off.

Other: I can see that! Organization is half the job. How’s the team? Have you been mentoring anyone new?

Target: I’ve been helping out with the latest hire. She just started a couple of weeks back, fresh out of school herself. She reminds me a bit of myself when I started: enthusiastic, a bit nervous, but catching on fast. She’s already pretty good at handling customer questions—though the safe deposit box routine is still a bit of a mystery to her.

Other: Those boxes are tricky until you’ve done them a dozen times. Do you have a preference for handling the technical side or working face-to-face with customers?

Target: I really enjoy being at the counter most days, interacting with people from the neighborhood. But I also find it satisfying when a big batch of checks balances perfectly after a long shift. Most folks don’t realize how much of the job is about tiny details—catching an extra cent, making sure a signature matches, that sort of thing.

Other: I hear you. A lot of trust gets placed in those details. What inspired you to aim for this field in the first place? I know you could have gone so many directions after finishing your courses.

Target: Honestly, it’s partly because I enjoy numbers and routine, and partly because I wanted a stable job close to home. Being in the town you grew up in, knowing the people who walk in—that appeals to me. Plus, I’ve always liked being someone people can rely on. Maybe it’s because my father used to bring me along to the bank as a kid, teaching me how deposits and withdrawals worked.

Other: Family legacy, huh? That’s something rare these days. I know a lot of your classmates moved out of the area after graduation—was that ever a consideration for you?

Target: I thought about it, but sticking around meant I could help out with family stuff, watch my siblings grow up, and keep my roots. Plenty of opportunities elsewhere, but this town’s always felt like home. Plus, there’s a certain peace in settling into a community you know—kind of like main street in July, with everyone out and about before the county fair.

Other: That’s a nice image. Speaking of tradition, I know plenty of folks who had to navigate all sorts of paperwork to deal with residency or work status stuff. Did you ever run into that kind of red tape starting out?

Target: Not really, to be honest. It was pretty straightforward—job application, background check, and I was good to go. Nothing unusual with eligibility or forms. In fact, my onboarding process was a breeze compared to what I’ve heard from others who had to wait ages for final approvals.

Other: Lucky you! Paperwork is nobody’s favorite. I remember when I applied, it felt like every document had to be notarized twice. Out of curiosity, ever need to travel abroad, or have you mostly stuck around stateside?

Target: Mostly local, but I’ve traveled around the country a fair bit. Never needed to put together any complicated visa paperwork—just a suitcase, a travel mug, and I’m out the door. The furthest I’ve been is to see a college friend out in Seattle, but I always come back home.

Other: Sounds like you’ve got your spot in the world pretty well picked out. A lot of people would be envious of that kind of certainty. If you could change anything about your current role, what would it be?

Target: Huh. Maybe a bit more variety during the slow afternoons—sometimes I wish there were more projects to tackle. But otherwise, I like the stability, and the chance to connect with people each day. And of course, having summer birthdays means there’s always an excuse for ice cream breaks with the team. I look forward to those.

Other: That sense of camaraderie goes a long way. Have you picked up any interesting hobby recently, outside of work?

Target: I started playing rec basketball again with a group of guys from the old neighborhood. Each weekend, we hit the court behind the local high school. It’s not the NBA, but it keeps me active, and it’s a good way to unwind after a week of mental math and customer queries.

Other: That’s awesome! Do you ever get competitive?

Target: Oh, a little. Nothing like trying to bank a three-pointer and getting blocked by someone who claims they haven’t played since college. We’ve got a running joke: if you miss too many baskets, you have to buy everyone Gatorade. It definitely keeps things lively.

Other: Let me guess, you’re the go-to for organizing who’s bringing the snacks and reminding everyone when the next game is.

Target: Guilty as charged. Old habits die hard, and someone’s got to make sure people remember when we’re meeting.

Other: With all that handling of cash and receipts at work, I bet nobody in your group dares dispute the scorekeeping either.

Target: You’d be surprised—everyone thinks they’re right. But there’s something satisfying about writing the numbers down and knowing they add up. I guess that’s just my thing.

Other: For what it’s worth, I think you’ve struck a great balance between work and play. Would your family agree?

Target: I’d like to think so. My younger brother teases me for being too organized, but even he can’t argue with a perfectly balanced checkbook. My folks still expect me to show up for Sunday dinners and update them on all the neighborhood happenings. I’m the resident source for branch gossip and basketball scores now.

Other: Sunday dinners—now that’s a tradition worth keeping. Do you find yourself giving advice to other family members about budgeting or saving?

Target: All the time. I helped my sister set up her first account a couple of years back, and now she’s coming to me for pointers on saving for her own place. Having walked people through account paperwork at work for so long, it just comes naturally.

Other: That’s really nice. I think a lot of people would love to have someone in banking as a sibling!

Target: It comes in handy, especially during tax season or when someone’s confused about online banking features. Plus, every so often I get roped into helping out at career day at the local elementary. I get to explain what I do, and, I admit, I enjoy making numbers look a little less intimidating.

Other: I love that! Out of curiosity, if you could go back and give your younger self one piece of advice at the start of college, what would it be?

Target: I’d say don’t stress so much about picking the perfect major, and maybe don’t eat so much cafeteria pizza. Honestly, being willing to learn on the fly and seeing every interaction as a chance to grow helped the most. Plus, those late nights prepping for business finals taught me the value of teamwork—and coffee.

Other: Solid advice. Do you still keep in touch with folks from your university days?

Target: A few. There’s a group chat that’s still alive and kicking, especially anytime our alma mater’s basketball team wins. We try to meet up at least once a year, usually at the end of July for somebody’s birthday barbecue.

Other: Oh, so you’ve got other summer babies in the group as well!

Target: Yeah, it’s like half of us were born right in that sweet spot during summer break, when everyone was free to celebrate. It makes organizing a party that much easier.

Other: Perfect! Before we wrap up, is there anything you’d want from management to help you feel more supported in your role?

Target: I think some refreshers on the new systems wouldn’t hurt—especially with all these updates lately. Maybe some workshops or peer coaching would help smooth things over. Other than that, I’ve got what I need: good co-workers, reliable routines, and an endless stream of customers to keep things interesting.

Other: I’ll pass that along. Thanks for being so open. It’s always great chatting with someone who’s so dedicated and thoughtful about their work.

Target: Thanks, I appreciate it. Glad I could share a little about what makes the job worth sticking with.

Other: Enjoy the rest of your afternoon. Don’t let the Monday rush get you down.

Target: Will do. And if you ever come by for a summer ice cream, you know where to find me—right at the window, counting coins.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-20 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I need some help figuring out my schedule for next semester. I’m kind of juggling a few things and want to make sure I can handle it.

Chatbot: Of course! Could you tell me a bit about your current commitments and what classes you’re thinking of taking?

Person: Sure. So just for context, I’ve finished 1 or more years of college credit, but I don’t have a degree yet. I’m hoping to get closer to finishing my associate’s next semester. I’m not in the labor force right now, but I did used to work as a cashier in sales and related occupations at a grocery store, so I’m used to balancing work and school. I’ll give you my phone number in case we need to set reminders or anything: (213) 283-0744.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing all that info! That helps a lot. What classes are you hoping to enroll in next semester? Also, do you have any other responsibilities outside of school?

Person: As far as outside responsibilities, I was born in the US, so I don’t have any citizenship paperwork or issues to deal with. I’m mainly focusing on school—no job at the moment. For classes, I’m looking at English Composition II, Intro to Psychology, and a statistics course. My birthday is 10 January 2007, so I’m kind of younger than most people at my level, but I can handle it.

Chatbot: That’s an impressive academic track for someone your age! With English Comp II, Psych, and stats, you’ll have a good but manageable workload. Since you don’t have job obligations right now, how many credits are you planning to take in total? Are you hoping to attend classes in person or online?

Person: I’m leaning toward 12 credits, so I can be considered full-time and maybe qualify for more financial aid. I’ll probably do a mix: some classes in person (like stats) and some online (like Psych). Last semester, I took 9 credits and managed it fine, even when I was working as a cashier, but this time I don’t need to worry about a work schedule.

Chatbot: Sounds like a solid plan! Balancing 12 credits without having to work should give you some breathing room. Are there any extracurricular activities or hobbies you want to fit into your schedule? And do you need any assistance organizing your daily routine?

Person: I like to spend some time with friends once or twice a week, and I volunteer every other Saturday at a local food bank. Other than that, I just want to make sure I have time for assignments and maybe hit the gym. I could use some tips on organizing my calendar though, especially keeping track of assignment deadlines and exams.

Chatbot: I’d be glad to help with that! Have you used any digital calendar apps before, or would you prefer a paper planner? I can also suggest some study and organization apps that might help you track everything, and even send reminders to your phone at (213) 283-0744.

Person: I’ve used Google Calendar a little, but mostly I just put sticky notes everywhere. I think I need to step up my game now that I’m taking more credits. Reminders to my phone would be great. Also, is it weird that I’m already 2 years into college at 17? My date of birth is 10 January 2007, and sometimes I feel a little out of place.

Chatbot: It’s not weird at all! In fact, it shows you’re motivated and ahead of the curve. Many students start college early for a variety of reasons. With 1 or more years of college credit behind you and your previous work as a cashier, you’ve got valuable experience and maturity. As for organization, using Google Calendar or another app can help you visually map out your week, block out study times, and set up alerts for exams and due dates. Would you like me to walk you through setting up a weekly template?

Person: Yeah, that would be awesome! Let’s do that. Just to confirm, the best way to reach me is still my phone at (213) 283-0744 if you can set up any automated alerts or reminders. I generally like to study in the evenings and keep mornings free, unless I have a morning class. With only 3 courses, I hope that’s manageable.

Chatbot: Absolutely, studying in the evenings will make it easier to maintain consistency, especially if your mornings are used for rest or other activities. I’ll help you set up recurring calendar events for your classes and personal study blocks. I can also guide you to apps that send SMS reminders, which will go to your number at (213) 283-0744. Besides your main courses, are there any recurring personal events like volunteering or gym visits you want to add?

Person: Yeah, please add volunteering every other Saturday and gym sessions on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons. Also, if you could include my friends’ hangouts on Sundays, that would be cool. Oh, and thanks for mentioning my previous experience as a cashier in sales and related occupations—it actually helps me stay organized.

Chatbot: Will do! I’ll make a template that includes volunteering every other Saturday, gym visits on the specified days, and friends’ hangouts on Sundays. Your previous job in sales and as a cashier probably helped you develop great time management skills, which will serve you well now. Since you have 1 or more years of college credit but no degree yet, spacing out your courses is a good move. Would you like suggestions for effective study techniques or tips on coping with feeling out of place due to your age or being born in the US and already pretty far along in your education?

Person: Some study technique tips would be amazing! And yeah, sometimes I worry I don’t fit in since I was born 10 January 2007 and most of my classmates are older. But at least I don’t have to worry about extra paperwork since I was born in the US, so that’s a relief.

Chatbot: Definitely! Try scheduling review sessions after each class to reinforce new info, and make use of flashcards or practice quizzes for tough material. If you find yourself doubting your place, remember: your hard work and accomplishments really do put you right where you belong, and your unique perspective is a strength. You’ve balanced work as a cashier, accumulated college credit, and maintained other commitments—all impressive feats! If you need help or encouragement, you can always reach out—just let me know if texting your phone number (213) 283-0744 is the best way to do so.

Person: Thanks, that helps a lot. I feel a little more confident about the next semester. If I need more advice, I’ll let you know. You can always send a reminder to (213) 283-0744—I’ll be sure to see it!

Chatbot: You got it! Best of luck next semester, and don’t hesitate to reach out for any support or advice. Have a great rest of your day!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_167 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Latitudinal gradients in species diversity

Species richness, or biodiversity, increases from the poles to the tropics for a wide variety of terrestrial and marine organisms, often referred to as the latitudinal diversity gradient. The latitudinal diversity gradient is one of the most widely recognized patterns in ecology. It has been observed to varying degrees in Earth's past. A parallel trend has been found with elevation (elevational diversity gradient), though this is less well-studied.

Explaining the latitudinal diversity gradient has been called one of the great contemporary challenges of biogeography and macroecology (Willig et al. 2003, Pimm and Brown 2004, Cardillo et al. 2005). The question "What determines patterns of species diversity?" was among the 25 key research themes for the future identified in 125th Anniversary issue of Science (July 2005). There is a lack of consensus among ecologists about the mechanisms underlying the pattern, and many hypotheses have been proposed and debated.  A recent review  noted that among the many conundrums associated with the latitudinal diversity gradient (or latitudinal biodiversity gradient) the causal relationship between rates of molecular evolution and speciation has yet to be demonstrated.

Understanding the global distribution of biodiversity is one of the most significant objectives for ecologists and biogeographers. Beyond purely scientific goals and satisfying curiosity, this understanding is essential for applied issues of major concern to humankind, such as the spread of invasive species, the control of diseases and their vectors, and the likely effects of global climate change on the maintenance of biodiversity (Gaston 2000).  Tropical areas play prominent roles in the understanding of the distribution of biodiversity, as their rates of habitat degradation and biodiversity loss are exceptionally high.

Patterns in the past
The latitudinal diversity gradient is a noticeable pattern among modern organisms that has been described qualitatively and quantitatively. It has been studied at various taxonomic levels, through different time periods and across many geographic regions (Crame 2001). The latitudinal diversity gradient has been observed to varying degrees in Earth's past, possibly due to differences in climate during various phases of Earth's history. Some studies indicate that the gradient was strong, particularly among marine taxa, while other studies of terrestrial taxa indicate it had little effect on the distribution of animals.

Hypotheses for pattern
Although many of the hypotheses exploring the latitudinal diversity gradient are closely related and interdependent, most of the major hypotheses can be split into three general hypotheses.

Spatial/Area hypotheses
There are five major hypotheses that depend solely on the spatial and areal characteristics of the tropics.

Mid-domain effect
Using computer simulations, Colwell and Hurt (1994) and Willing and Lyons (1998) first pointed out that if species’ latitudinal ranges were randomly shuffled within the geometric constraints of a bounded biogeographical domain (e.g. the continents of the New World, for terrestrial species), species' ranges would tend to overlap more toward the center of the domain than towards its limits, forcing a mid-domain peak in species richness. Colwell and Lees (2000) called this stochastic phenomenon the mid-domain effect (MDE), presented several alternative analytical formulations for one-dimensional MDE (expanded by Connolly 2005), and suggested the hypothesis that MDE might contribute to the latitudinal gradient in species richness, together with other explanatory factors considered here, including climatic and historical ones. Because "pure" mid-domain models attempt to exclude any direct environmental or evolutionary influences on species richness, they have been claimed to be null models (Colwell et al. 2004, 2005). On this view, if latitudinal gradients of species richness were determined solely by MDE, observed...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_86 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Operation (mathematics)

In mathematics, an operation is a function which takes zero or more input values (also called "operands" or "arguments") to a well-defined output value. The number of operands is the arity of the operation.

The most commonly studied operations are binary operations (i.e., operations of arity 2), such as addition and multiplication, and unary operations (i.e., operations of arity 1), such as additive inverse and multiplicative inverse. An operation of arity zero, or nullary operation, is a constant. The mixed product is an example of an operation of arity 3, also called ternary operation.

Generally, the arity is taken to be finite. However, infinitary operations are sometimes considered, in which case the "usual" operations of finite arity are called finitary operations.

A partial operation is defined similarly to an operation, but with a partial function in place of a function.

Types of operation

There are two common types of operations: unary and binary. Unary operations involve only one value, such as negation and trigonometric functions. Binary operations, on the other hand, take two values, and include addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation.

Operations can involve mathematical objects other than numbers. The logical values true and false can be combined using logic operations, such as and, or, and not. Vectors can be added and subtracted. Rotations can be combined using the function composition operation, performing the first rotation and then the second. Operations on sets include the binary operations union and intersection and the unary operation of complementation. Operations on functions include composition and convolution.

Operations may not be defined for every possible value of its domain. For example, in the real numbers one cannot divide by zero or take square roots of negative numbers. The values for which an operation is defined form a set called its domain of definition or active domain. The set which contains the values produced is called the codomain, but the set of actual values attained by the operation is its codomain of definition, active codomain, image or range. For example, in the real numbers, the squaring operation only produces non-negative numbers; the codomain is the set of real numbers, but the range is the non-negative numbers.

Operations can involve dissimilar objects: a vector can be multiplied by a scalar to form another vector (an operation known as scalar multiplication), and the inner product operation on two vectors produces a quantity that is scalar. An operation may or may not have certain properties, for example it may be associative, commutative, anticommutative, idempotent, and so on.

The values combined are called operands, arguments, or inputs, and the value produced is called the value, result, or output. Operations can have fewer or more than two inputs (including the case of zero input and infinitely many inputs).

An operator is similar to an operation in that it refers to the symbol or the process used to denote the operation, hence their point of view is different. For instance, one often speaks of "the operation of addition" or "the addition operation", when focusing on the operands and result, but one switches to "addition operator" (rarely "operator of addition"), when focusing on the process, or from the more symbolic viewpoint, the function .

Definition
An n-ary operation ω from  to Y is a function . The set  is called the domain of the operation, the set Y is called the codomain of the operation, and the fixed non-negative integer n (the number of operands) is called the arity of the operation. Thus a unary operation has arity one, and a binary operation has arity two. An operation of arity zero, called a nullary operation, is simply an element of the codomain Y. An n-ary operation can also be viewed as an -ary relation that is total on its n input domains and unique on its output domain.

An n-ary partial operation ω from  to Y...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_37 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cluster sampling

In statistics, cluster sampling is a sampling plan used when mutually homogeneous yet internally heterogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population.  It is often used in marketing research. 

In this sampling plan, the total population is divided into these groups (known as clusters) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected. The elements in each cluster are then sampled. If all elements in each sampled cluster are sampled, then this is referred to as a "one-stage" cluster sampling plan. If a simple random subsample of elements is selected within each of these groups, this is referred to as a "two-stage" cluster sampling plan. A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy. For a fixed sample size, the expected random error is smaller when most of the variation in the population is present internally within the groups, and not between the groups.

Cluster elemental
The population within a cluster should ideally be as heterogeneous as possible, but there should be homogeneity between clusters. Each cluster should be a small-scale representation of the total population. The clusters should be mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive. A random sampling technique is then used on any relevant clusters to choose which clusters to include in the study. In single-stage cluster sampling, all the elements from each of the selected clusters are sampled. In two-stage cluster sampling, a random sampling technique is applied to the elements from each of the selected clusters.

The main difference between cluster sampling and stratified sampling is that in cluster sampling the cluster is treated as the sampling unit so sampling is done on a population of clusters (at least in the first stage).  In stratified sampling, the sampling is done on elements within each stratum. In stratified sampling, a random sample is drawn from each of the strata, whereas in cluster sampling only the selected clusters are sampled. A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce costs by increasing sampling efficiency. This contrasts with stratified sampling where the motivation is to increase precision.

There is also multistage cluster sampling, where at least two stages are taken in selecting elements from clusters.

When clusters are of different sizes

Without modifying the estimated parameter, cluster sampling is unbiased when the clusters are approximately the same size. In this case, the parameter is computed by combining all the selected clusters. When the clusters are of different sizes there are several options:

One method is to sample clusters and then survey all elements in that cluster. Another method is a two-stage method of sampling a fixed proportion of units (be it 5%  or 50%, or another number, depending on cost considerations) from within each of the selected clusters. Relying on the sample drawn from these options will yield an unbiased estimator. However, the sample size is no longer fixed upfront. This leads to a more complicated formula for the standard error of the estimator, as well as issues with the optics of the study plan (since the power analysis and the cost estimations often relate to a specific sample size).

A third possible solution is to use probability proportionate to size sampling. In this sampling plan, the probability of selecting a cluster is proportional to its size, so a large cluster has a greater probability of selection than a small cluster. The advantage here is that when clusters are selected with probability proportionate to size, the same number of interviews should be carried out in each sampled cluster so that each unit sampled has the same probability of selection.

Applications of cluster sampling
An example of cluster sampling is area sampling or geographical cluster sampling. Each cluster is a geographical area. Because a geographically dispersed population can be expensive to survey, greater...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-20 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! I need some help figuring out what to do with my classes this semester. I finished my first year of college, but I haven’t gotten a degree yet. Just racked up credits. Any advice?

Chatbot: Sure thing! It’s great you’ve completed a year already. What’s your major, or are you still deciding? And are you thinking of sticking with the same school, or exploring something new?

Person: I’m undeclared for now. I did a bit of everything last year—psych, econ, and some art stuff. Took a little break and got a job at a local store ringing up folks at the register, so cashier life gave me some perspective. But now I’m wondering if I should go back full force or maybe just take a few classes while working?

Chatbot: Taking some time to explore different areas can really help narrow down your interests. Balancing work and school can be tough. Since you’ve had experience as a cashier, do you feel like working while studying helps, or does it stretch you thin?

Person: Tbh, working as a cashier was eye-opening but tiring, so now I’m not doing that or any job right now. Trying to just focus on what I want next. Mom keeps telling me not everyone jumps straight into their dream gig after a couple college semesters, and she’s right. Also, I’ve been in the same state my whole life—even got a New England accent going—so maybe I crave change. What do you think?

Chatbot: Your mom sounds wise! With some college under your belt and a break from working, it might be a good time to focus on your studies or maybe try out some internships or volunteer opportunities to see what feels right without the pressure of a full job. Are there any subjects or careers that have started to catch your eye, now that you’ve had a bit of experience in different areas?

Person: Well, nothing super specific yet. I mean, sometimes customers talk about their lives when I’m bagging groceries and the people-watching is actually kinda fun. Thought about maybe psych or communications cause I like talking and listening. My birthday came around not too long ago, January 10th, so it got me thinking—should I set new goals or just ride the wave?

Chatbot: Happy belated birthday! Birthdays are a great time to reflect and set fresh goals. Since you’re exploring, maybe create smaller targets—like finishing a certain number of credits this year or reaching out to professors in fields you find interesting. That way, you’ll keep moving forward, even if things feel uncertain.

Person: Thanks! Feels weird being 17 and already feeling like I’ve lived through a bunch of transitions. Sometimes I worry cause all my friends landed part-time gigs fast, but right now I’m technically not bringing in any wages. Guess you could call my current “employment status” not in the workforce, which is fine but makes me restless.

Chatbot: It’s completely normal to feel that way, especially when you see friends moving at a different pace. Everyone’s journey is different, and taking time to figure out what you truly want can actually set you up for greater satisfaction in the long run. While you’re not in the workforce at the moment, you’re gaining valuable experience just by reflecting on your choices and learning from them. Have you looked into part-time campus opportunities or student orgs that match your interests?

Person: I’ve thought about joining some clubs or activities once I’m back for classes. The cash register job gave me some confidence talking to strangers, but also showed me I can’t stand on my feet for that long every day, haha. Also, as someone who grew up in the States—born here and all—that hustle mind-set runs deep in my family, so I kinda stress if I’m not busy.

Chatbot: That’s totally understandable. Societal and family expectations can definitely make you feel pressured to always be doing something. Since you have that background, maybe channel some of your energy into exploring areas you’re passionate about through campus activities, which can also help with networking. Finding what excites you outside of just “making money” can lead to really rewarding experiences.

Person: Yeah, and you know, I’m used to doing forms for everything—whether it’s financial aid or signing up for stuff, it seems like everyone wants your info these days. Like, I can reel off my social if needed: zero-four-seven, then 85, then 3-7-3-4. Gotta have that memorized cause you never know. Seriously, adulting is real!

Chatbot: You definitely sound prepared! Keeping that information handy can make things much easier when navigating official paperwork or student resources. Just remember to always be careful about where and when you share sensitive info like that. Is there anything about “adulting”—like banking, housing, or paperwork—you’d want help untangling?

Person: Oh for sure! The paperwork side is always tricky, especially because I have college credits but no diploma yet. Nobody warns you about the “in between” on applications. Maybe you could help me organize what I need if I apply for an internship or decide to enroll again? I don’t want to forget anything, especially since I bounced out after my first year.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I can help with that. When you’re applying for internships or re-enrolling, you’ll often need: your transcripts, proof of credits completed, any job or volunteer history—including your customer service experience as a cashier—and usually a resume and a cover letter. Since you’ve completed over a year’s worth of classes, be sure to highlight that on applications, even if you don’t have a degree yet. Also, keep documents like your SSN and ID in a safe place for when forms ask for them.

Person: That’s great advice! I always forget about stuff like cover letters since I worked at a grocery store before college, so resume stuff is new for me. Also, thanks for reminding me that having college experience, even if I left after a year, still counts for a lot.

Chatbot: Definitely! Admissions and employers value the time and effort spent earning college credits, regardless of whether a degree has been completed. Emphasizing your experience in sales and customer interactions shows practical skills, too. If you want, I can help you draft a resume or brainstorm ideas for your cover letter.

Person: That’d be awesome! Let’s try working on a resume draft. I want to show I had a sales-related job at the store and that I’ve gotten through my first year of college, even if my story’s a little untraditional.

Chatbot: Sounds like a plan! I’ll walk you through the basics: start with your contact info, then education—listing your college, dates attended, and credits earned; then your work experience, highlighting your job as a cashier and any other relevant activities. Add a skills section that features customer service, communication, and reliability. Want a sample to start filling in?

Person: For sure—seeing a template would help a lot! Thanks for not making me feel behind or weird for taking a different path. It’s been good talking it out and planning next steps.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! There’s no single “right” way through college and work—just your way. I’ll send over a sample resume template now, and we can customize it together so it highlights your strengths and experiences. Let’s keep working on making your story shine!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_169 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Hardened steel

The term hardened steel is often used for a medium or high carbon steel that has been given heat treatment and then quenching followed by tempering. The quenching results in the formation of metastable martensite, the fraction of which is reduced to the desired amount during tempering. This is the most common state for finished articles such as tools and machine parts. In contrast, the same steel composition in annealed state is softer, as required for forming and machining.

Depending on the temperature and composition of the steel, it can be hardened or softened. To make steel harder, it must be heated to very high temperatures. The final result of exactly how hard the steel becomes depends on the amount of carbon present in the metal. Only steel that is high in carbon can be hardened and tempered. If a metal does not contain the necessary quantity of carbon, then its crystalline structure cannot be broken, and therefore the physical makeup of the steel cannot be altered.

Frequently, the term "hardening" is associated with tempered steel. Both processes are used hand in hand when hardening steel. The two part process begins with hardening the steel so that it becomes hard and does not wear over time. However, very often, this process leaves the steel very brittle and susceptible to breaking during use. Tempering reduces the hardness of the forged steel very slightly but improves the overall product as it results in steel that is much less brittle.

Hardening and tempering
The two major processes of hardening and tempering can be broken down into four major steps. First, a piece of carbon steel is heated gradually until it reaches a temperature above the alloy's critical temperature. The steel is then quenched, usually in water or oil (though other quenches, such as brine or sodium hydroxide solutions, are sometimes used to achieve a particular result). The steel is now at that given alloy's maximum hardness, but as stated above, also brittle. At this point, tempering is usually performed to achieve a more useful balance of hardness and toughness. The steel is gradually heated until the desired temper colours are drawn, generally at a temperature significantly lower than the alloy's critical temperature. Different colours in the temper spectrum reflect different balances of hardness to toughness, so different temper levels are appropriate for different applications. The steel is then re-quenched to 'fix' the temper at the desired level. A talented smith or metalworker can fine-tune the performance of a steel tool or item to precisely what is required based solely on careful observation of temper colours. A visual representation of this process may make the concept easier to understand.

Testing for hardened steel
It is not easy to determine if steel has undergone the hardening and tempering process by simply looking at it, but there is a reliable and simple test. To examine a piece of steel, obtain a hand file and file an edge of the selected metal. If the piece of steel has not undergone the hardening process, the metal file should easily 'bite' into the sample. If the metal has been hardened, the file fails to cut into the sample and glances off with little visible effect.

Case hardened articles starting as low carbon steel (0.5 - 1.5% carbon content) can also be labeled hardened steel.

References

Steels
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_115 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Root-mean-square deviation of atomic positions

In bioinformatics, the root-mean-square deviation of atomic positions, or simply root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), is the measure of the average distance between the atoms (usually the backbone atoms) of superimposed molecules. In the study of globular protein conformations, one customarily measures the similarity in three-dimensional structure by the RMSD of the Cα atomic coordinates after optimal rigid body superposition.

When a dynamical system fluctuates about some well-defined average position, the RMSD from the average over time can be referred to as the RMSF or root mean square fluctuation. The size of this fluctuation can be measured, for example using Mössbauer spectroscopy or nuclear magnetic resonance, and can provide important physical information. The Lindemann index is a method of placing the RMSF in the context of the parameters of the system.

A widely used way to compare the structures of biomolecules or solid bodies is to translate and rotate one structure with respect to the other to minimize the RMSD. Coutsias, et al. presented a simple derivation, based on quaternions, for the optimal solid body transformation (rotation-translation) that minimizes the RMSD between two sets of vectors. They proved that the quaternion method is equivalent to the well-known Kabsch algorithm. The solution given by Kabsch is an instance of the solution of the d-dimensional problem, introduced by Hurley and Cattell. The quaternion solution to compute the optimal rotation was published in the appendix of a paper of Petitjean. This quaternion solution and the calculation of the optimal isometry in the d-dimensional case were both extended to infinite sets and to the continuous case in the appendix A of another paper of Petitjean.

The equation

 

where δi is the distance between atom i and either a reference structure or the mean position of the N equivalent atoms.  This is often calculated for the backbone heavy atoms C, N, O, and Cα or sometimes just the Cα atoms.

Normally a rigid superposition which minimizes the RMSD is performed, and this minimum is returned. Given two sets of  points  and , the RMSD is defined as follows:

 

A RMSD value is expressed in length units. The most commonly used unit in structural biology is the Ångström (Å) which is equal to 10−10 m.

Uses
Typically RMSD is used as a quantitative measure of similarity between two or more protein structures. For example, the CASP protein structure prediction competition uses RMSD as one of its assessments of how well a submitted structure matches the known, target structure. Thus the lower RMSD, the better the model is in comparison to the target structure.

Also some scientists who study protein folding by computer simulations use RMSD as a reaction coordinate to quantify where the protein is between the folded state and the unfolded state.

The study of RMSD for small organic molecules (commonly called ligands when they're binding to macromolecules, such as proteins, is studied) is common in the context of docking, as well as in other methods to study the configuration of ligands when bound to macromolecules. Note that, for the case of ligands (contrary to proteins, as described above), their structures are most commonly not superimposed prior to the calculation of the RMSD.

RMSD is also one of several metrics that have been proposed for quantifying evolutionary similarity between proteins, as well as the quality of sequence alignments.

See also
Root mean square deviation
Root mean square fluctuation
Quaternion – used to optimise RMSD calculations
Kabsch algorithm – an algorithm used to minimize the RMSD by first finding the best rotation
GDT – a different structure comparison measure
TM-score – a different structure comparison measure
Longest continuous segment (LCS) — A different structure comparison measure
Global distance calculation (GDC_sc, GDC_all) — Structure comparison measures that use full-model information (not just α-carbon) to assess...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_288 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# EN 207

EN 207 is a European norm for laser safety eyewear (now superseded, together with the EN 208, by the ISO 19818:2021 standard ). Any laser eye protection sold within the European Community must be certified and labeled with the CE mark. According to this standard, laser safety glasses should not only absorb laser light of a given wavelength, but they should also be able to withstand a direct hit from the laser without breaking or melting, both the filter and the frame. In this respect, the European norm is more strict than the American norm (ANSI Z 136) that only regulates the required optical density. More precisely, the safety glasses should be able to withstand a continuous wave laser for 5 seconds, or 50 pulses for a pulsed laser (EN 207:2017).

An EN 207 specification might read IR 315–532 LB6. Here, the letters IR indicate the laser working mode, in this case a pulsed mode. The range 315–532 indicates the wavelength range in nanometers. Finally, the scale number LB6 indicates a lower limit for the optical density, i.e. the transmittance within this wavelength range is less than 10−6.

Laser working modes

EN 207 specifies four laser working modes:

Scale numbers

The scale numbers range from LB1 to LB10, where the number is a lower
limit for the optical density, i.e. LBn means that OD > n, or
, where T is the transmittance. The
minimum scale number for a given laser with a beam diameter of 1 mm
depends on the working mode and the wavelength as follows (EN 207:2017):

If the beam diameter differs from 1 mm a correction factor, depending on the material of the filter and frame, must be applied.
Another correction factor must be used for pulsed lasers in case of repeated pulses for wavelengths above 400 nm.

Examples
 the laser operates at 1064 nm and has a pulse duration of 10 ns, 100 mJ/cm2 (or 103 J/m2). You have goggles that are specified as DIR 1064 LB5. The pulse duration indicates that we should look at the R specification, with scale number n=5, which gives an upper limit of 5×102 J/m2, which means that these goggles do not offer suitable protection for this particular laser.
 the laser operates at 780 nm, is continuous wave with an intensity of 50 mW/cm2 (P = 500 W/m2). This means you need a D protection level of , which is rounded up to 2. In other words, the safety goggles should be at least D 780 LB2.
 such example can be found too 900 - 1070 D LB7 + IR LB8 + M LB8Y.The symbols have the same meaning as in the previous examples, just note on marking with Y: if the eye protection device has not been tested with low repetition frequencies (≤ 25 Hz), the protection level must be extended by the letter Y .

From the scale it can be inferred that the power densities that correspond to  are considered safe without protective eyewear.

References

00207
Laser safety and standards
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-41 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all. What brings you in?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling pretty stressed lately, and I’m starting to notice some aches and pains in my lower back. I just wanted to get things checked out and ask for some advice.

Doctor: Of course, I’m glad you came in. Can you tell me a bit more about your work and daily routine? Sometimes stress at work or home can show up as physical symptoms.

Patient: I work in office and administrative support, specifically as a cargo and freight agent. So my days can sometimes be long, with a lot of sitting, computer work, and coordinating shipments.

Doctor: I see. That can definitely contribute to stress and back discomfort, especially with prolonged sitting. Are you able to take breaks and move around during your shift?

Patient: It depends on the day, honestly. Some days it feels like I barely have time to eat lunch or stretch at all.

Doctor: Understood. And how is your stress outside of work? Any additional factors?

Patient: Well, there’s just a lot on my plate. I completed my bachelor’s degree a few years ago, and I’ve been trying to build my career here in Virginia. I’m grateful to be settled, but sometimes it just gets overwhelming.

Doctor: That makes sense. It can be a challenge to balance work, personal life, and health, especially in a demanding job. Are you getting enough sleep?

Patient: Not really. Honestly, sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night thinking about all the things I have to do. By the way, if you need to reach me about my results or anything, my phone number is (571) 515-8148.

Doctor: Thank you for providing that. I’ll make a note of your contact information. Now, about your background, are there any medical conditions in your family that I should be aware of?

Patient: Well, my parents are both from Pakistan, and my race is Pakistani too, so in our family, high blood pressure and diabetes are common. That’s something I’m worried about for myself, as well.

Doctor: Thank you. I’ll keep that in mind as we proceed. With your heritage, there is indeed a higher risk for certain conditions, so regular monitoring is important. Are you currently on any medications?

Patient: No, not right now. Just occasional over-the-counter pain meds if my back acts up. I’m a U.S. citizen by naturalization, so I’ve had some experience navigating health care here, but I still sometimes feel unsure about what’s normal or not.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. And I appreciate you sharing your citizenship background. It can sometimes impact the way people access care. Since you mentioned you’re not on any chronic medications, would you say your general health has been good up until now?

Patient: For the most part, yes. Other than some allergies and occasional colds, I’ve been pretty healthy. I’m just concerned about this stress, though. I’m worried it could turn into something more serious.

Doctor: You’re right to bring it up early. Chronic stress can contribute to physical problems, like back pain, headaches, even digestive issues. And since you’re living in Virginia, I can also give you information about local support resources if you need them.

Patient: That would be great. Most of my support network is family and friends from my own community, but it’s always good to know about more options. Sometimes I feel a bit isolated because of my work schedule.

Doctor: I understand. I’ll include some information on groups and programs available here in Virginia, as well as some stress management strategies you can try at home and at work. Does anyone in your immediate family have ongoing health issues I should be aware of?

Patient: My father is managing type 2 diabetes, and my mother has hypertension. I try to stay active, but sitting at the computer all day as a cargo and freight agent makes it tough.

Doctor: That’s true. Even a few short walks or simple stretches during your shift can make a difference. Since you have a bachelor’s degree, I wonder if you could build in some of what you’ve learned into a wellness plan—like practical scheduling or goal setting.

Patient: That’s a good point. I studied business administration, so I do know a bit about time management. I could probably use some of those skills to fit in more breaks or meal prepping.

Doctor: Absolutely; applying those techniques to caring for your health can be very effective. How about your diet? Are you able to prepare healthy meals, or do you usually buy food at work?

Patient: It’s a mix of both. Sometimes I bring food from home, traditional Pakistani dishes, or I grab something quick at the café near the office.

Doctor: I’d be happy to share some advice on healthy options that fit both your preferences and schedule. Given your family history and current concerns, it’s wise to keep an eye on diet, exercise, and stress levels. Any other main symptoms besides the back pain?

Patient: No, nothing specific besides the back pain and feeling tired or tense at the end of the day. I just don’t want things to get worse.

Doctor: That’s completely understandable. We’ll run some basic tests, check your blood pressure, and discuss a plan for stress, sleep, and exercise. I’ll also provide you with resources for work-related ergonomics and local support centered in Virginia if you’d like.

Patient: That sounds good. Thank you. And please, if you need to send me any information or reminders, use my number, (571) 515-8148. It’s the best way to reach me since I move between offices sometimes.

Doctor: Thank you. I’ll enter that into your file. We’ll follow up once we have results, and you can always call if you have more questions. We’ll work together to make sure you’re feeling better.

Patient: I appreciate your help, Doctor. I just want to stay proactive, given my background and everything going on.

Doctor: That’s the best approach. Let’s get started on those tests and set up a follow-up appointment to review everything soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_197 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Corner reflector antenna

A corner reflector antenna is a type of directional antenna used at VHF and UHF frequencies. It was invented by John D. Kraus in 1938. It consists of a dipole driven element mounted in front of two flat rectangular reflecting screens joined at an angle, usually 90°.   Corner reflector antennas have moderate gain of 10–15 dB, high front-to-back ratio of 20–30 dB,  and wide bandwidth.  

Corner reflector antennas are widely used for UHF television receiving antennas, point-to-point communication links and data links for wireless WANs, and amateur radio antennas on the 144, 420, and 1296 MHz bands.  They radiate linearly polarized radio waves and can be mounted for either horizontal or vertical polarization.

The corner reflector antenna should not be confused with a corner reflector, a passive device used to reflect radio waves back toward the source.

Physical design 

The flat reflecting surfaces can be metal sheets, but are more often made of wire screen or rod elements parallel to the driven element, to reduce weight and wind loads on the antenna.  The spacing of the rods D should not be more than 0.06 (6%) of the wavelength. The angle θ between the sides is most commonly 90°.  The gain increases as the angle narrows, but the increase below 90° is minimal, and requires longer reflector screens be used. However, angles down to 45° have been used.

The spacing (S) of the driven element in front of the point where the reflectors meet is approximately  but is not very critical; for 90° antennas the gain doesn't vary more than 1.5 dB for S between  and .  The radiation resistance of the dipole increases with this spacing, so the spacing can be adjusted to match the driven element to the feed line.  Bowtie driven elements are often used for wide bandwidth applications like television antennas.

The antenna can be regarded as a form with a gain intermediate between a plane reflective array antenna and a parabolic antenna. Corner reflector antennas are particularly suitable in applications where a broadband directional antenna around one to  wavelengths in size is needed. A parabolic dish this size has no advantage in gain over the corner reflector, so its simplicity of design and construction make it attractive.

Variations
Several different variations of the antenna are used
The single driven element can be replaced by a Yagi array.  UHF Yagi television antennas very often use a corner reflector. These antennas actually function more like two separate antennas: the corner reflector and driven element serves to provide broad bandwidth gain at the lower end of the UHF band, while the Yagi array is cut to give extra gain at the high end of the band.
Monopole versions for use at lower frequencies have been built by placing vertical reflecting screens behind a vertical monopole antenna.

References

Further reading
  Technical article about the antenna by the inventor.

External links
Corner Reflector Antennas
Corner Reflector for WiFi

Radio frequency antenna types
Antennas (radio)
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-88 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! I could use some advice about staying occupied these days. I feel like my daily routine lacks a bit of structure compared to what it used to be.

Chatbot: Hi there! I’m happy to help. Can you share a bit about how your days usually go now, and what kind of responsibilities or interests you have?

Person: Well, mornings are usually the slowest. After breakfast I might fold some laundry or, when I feel inspired, revisit an old hobby or two. It’s a big change from when I was spending hours hunched over, making sure every seam lined up perfectly and no wrinkles slipped by on stacks of shirts and jeans. My hands sometimes miss that rhythm, you know?

Chatbot: That sounds like detailed work—pressing and careful enough to leave a mark on your memory! What hobbies have you picked up recently, or would like to try again?

Person: Yes, it was definitely repetitive but satisfying work. Recently, I picked up crocheting again since it reminds me a bit of handling garments—the repetitive motions, making sure not to miss a single step. I also help my spouse with meal prepping sometimes, though my knife skills aren’t nearly as sharp as their sense of taste!

Chatbot: Crocheting can be so meditative, and it’s always helpful having an extra hand in the kitchen. How long have you and your spouse been supporting each other at home? Any memorable moments working together?

Person: We started our life together pretty early, honestly. Lost count of the times people joked about us being a pair of “old souls” because of how young we settled down! It’s been fun, though. Nowadays, I do a lot more at home—helping out where I’m needed—but she brings such warmth to my days. We sometimes challenge each other to little bake-offs, though she almost always wins.

Chatbot: Those sound like special moments. How do your days compare now to when you first started out—either at home or on the job?

Person: It’s funny; back when I was still waking up at the crack of dawn just to get to the factory floor, my whole focus was on not letting the steam irons get the better of me. Sometimes the radio would play those pop songs from the mid-2010s, and I’d think, “Wow, isn’t life racing by?” These days, the soundtrack is more likely to be my wife humming in the next room. I’m not chasing quotas anymore, so that’s one less thing to worry about. 

Chatbot: No alarms or quotas—sounds like you’ve earned a bit of a breather! What do you do to stay motivated or keep your sense of purpose now?

Person: I focus on small wins. Like, finally organizing all those family photos or teaching myself to fix a zipper that’s come loose on a jacket. My wife’s good at finding new movies for us to watch—she swears by romantic comedies, if you can believe that! Once in a while, I’ll help my younger cousins with their homework, but I always joke with them about how I probably know little more than they do, especially when it comes to science stuff.

Chatbot: Helping family is always valuable. Since you mentioned feeling you know “little more” on some topics, do you ever feel like you wish you’d continued formal schooling? Or are you content with where your educational journey stopped?

Person: Sometimes I wonder, sure. I finished up school after a couple years of high school, then went straight into work. It just felt like the natural next step for me. A lot of my friends did the same. If I had gone back, maybe I’d be able to help the kids with algebra instead of just cheering them on!

Chatbot: Makes sense—it’s practical, especially when you found meaningful work right away. And honestly, your hands-on skills sound like they taught you lessons of their own. Do you ever miss being on the factory floor?

Person: There are some parts I miss—the sense of accomplishment at the end of a long shift, or sharing stories with coworkers about the quirkiest garments that came our way. But at the same time, it was tough on the body, especially after a few years. I still get the urge to smooth out wrinkles on any shirt I see, old habits die hard!

Chatbot: Old habits really do! Since leaving that environment, what’s brought you the most joy during your days at home? Any new projects or goals?

Person: Spending more time with my wife, for sure. She’s got a way of talking me into tackling DIY stuff around the house. Last weekend, we tried refurbishing an old table together—lots of laughs and, of course, a few paint splatters we had to explain. I guess you can say we keep each other busy, even if it’s not the typical nine-to-five.

Chatbot: That sounds delightful! Does your neighborhood have a close-knit feel, or do you mostly stay indoors? Any favorite local places you like to visit?

Person: Our area’s pretty quiet, but I like going out for walks when the weather’s nice. There’s a bakery a couple blocks over that makes these amazing pastries every third Thursday—kind of a highlight in our month. Sometimes I run into people who ask after my wife or swap stories about old jobs. Everyone seems to remember the days when fabric dust filled the air and people would swap tips on stain removal!

Chatbot: I imagine that strong sense of community is comforting. Do you find that your skills from working with textiles have carried into other parts of your life?

Person: Definitely! I’m the one people come to when they rip a sleeve or need advice on how to get ink out of jeans. And when I’m helping at home, I can’t help being particular about folding sheets or keeping towels crisp. It probably drives my wife nuts sometimes! But I like that sense of order.

Chatbot: Organization skills are never wasted! You mentioned sharing stories with your cousins and helping with homework—do you feel like being the “older” cousin carries special responsibility?

Person: A little bit, yeah. They look up to me for life lessons and general advice. I remember just last year, one of them asked if I’d go to their school awards ceremony. Made me think of my own school days, especially when I’d stay late for extracurriculars instead of doing trig homework. I try to guide them where I can, but mostly I hope they’ll learn from my path—that everyone goes at their own pace.

Chatbot: That’s thoughtful. Speaking of milestones, do you and your wife ever celebrate special occasions in creative ways at home?

Person: We do! She’s great about remembering little traditions. Our anniversary just passed a few months ago, so we ordered from our favorite place and watched a movie that came out the same year we first met. And as for birthdays, mine always lands right around that sweet spot in June—it’s funny, my friends tease me every year because it seems to always be sweltering-hot or raining out, but that means ice cream cake never lasts long!

Chatbot: That sounds like a lovely time of year for a birthday. Do you have any favorite ways to celebrate?

Person: Simple is best—my wife usually makes my favorite dish (her lasagna is unmatched!), and we’ll invite close family. Some years, when the calendar lines up, my birthday nearly syncs up with the solstice. She jokes that the daylight is longer just for me!

Chatbot: What a wonderful tradition. You mentioned earlier about listening to pop songs from the mid-2010s at work—do you have a favorite artist or a song that especially reminds you of those days?

Person: Oh, there are a few! Around the factory, “Viva la Vida” was in heavy rotation, and there was always someone humming along to Rihanna’s hits. Those songs take me right back. I still remember hearing them the summer the world was buzzing about the first iPhone turning ten.

Chatbot: It must be nice to have such vivid musical memories tied to different chapters of life. Have you ever wanted to pick up an instrument or maybe sing for fun?

Person: I tried guitar once, but I realized my fingers are more suited for delicate fabrics than chords. I stick to humming in the kitchen while my wife preps dinner. She’s got the voice in the family anyway!

Chatbot: Teamwork at its finest. Out of curiosity, if you could learn anything at all—whether related to your old job or something entirely new—what would it be?

Person: I sometimes wish I knew more about electronics. My wife’s always mending appliances that stop working, and I just stand by with the toolbox hoping I handed her the right screwdriver. If I’d stuck around in school a little longer, maybe I’d have picked up more on that. But you know, sometimes experience is the best teacher.

Chatbot: You make a great point. Life is full of different learning paths. Has your routine shifted much recently, or is it the kind of schedule you’re pretty content with for now?

Person: It’s been pretty steady—after leaving the workplace, I thought I’d have more idle time or be bored, but there’s always someone in the family who needs a hem finished or an ear to listen. My wife and I tend to pace ourselves; she knows when I need a break. I’m grateful for that. Plus, with all those new online shows coming out, there’s never a dull evening.

Chatbot: Shows do help pass the time! Are there any series you and your wife both love, or do your tastes differ?

Person: She gravitates to romance and dramas—I’d rather watch an old action flick or something about history. But we compromise: last week, we watched the one about the New Zealand singer’s rise to fame. She swears she’s making me more “cultured,” one movie at a time.

Chatbot: Balance is everything! Last question—what would you tell your younger self, if you could go back in time to the early days after school and offer some encouragement?

Person: I’d tell myself not to rush. Everyone around me was in such a hurry to start working, get married, follow in the footsteps of their parents. It’s easy to forget those moments make up your story, even if you’re not ticking all the boxes at the same time as your friends. I’d say, “Stop and enjoy the day—even the routine ones. And don’t sweat the creases life leaves; they smooth out with time.”

Chatbot: That’s a beautiful outlook. Thanks for sharing your experiences and reflections with me today. If you ever want to chat again or need ideas for filling your day, I’ll be right here.

Person: Thank you! I appreciate the chat. I’ll be off now—there’s a fresh batch of laundry calling my name, and my wife’s already asking about dinner plans. Waves from our little corner of the world!

Chatbot: Wishing you and your wife a cozy evening. Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_159 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Greater blue-ringed octopus

The greater blue-ringed octopus (Hapalochlaena lunulata) is one of four species of extremely venomous blue-ringed octopuses belonging to the family Octopodidae. This particular species of blue-ringed octopus is known as one of the most toxic marine animals in the world.

Physical characteristics 
The greater blue-ringed octopus, despite its vernacular name, is a small octopus whose size does not exceed 10 centimeters, arms included, for an average weight of 80 grams. Its common name comes from the relatively large size of its blue rings (7 to 8 millimeters in diameter), which are larger than those of other members of the genus and help to distinguish this type of octopus. The head is slightly flattened dorsoventrally (front to back) and finished in a tip. Its eight arms are relatively short.

There are variable ring patterns on the mantle of Hapalochlaena lunulata with varied coloration in correlation to their ambient environment, from yellow ocher to light brown or even white-ish (when inactive). The blue rings, which number around 60, are spread throughout the entirety of its skin. The rings are roughly circular in shape and are based on a darker blotch than the background color of the skin. A black line, with thickness varying to increase contrast and visibility, borders the electric blue circles. The blue rings are an aposematic adornment to clearly show to all potential predators that the octopus is highly venomous. The octopus also has characteristic blue lines running through its eyes.

Flashing behavior 
The octopus usually flashes its iridescent rings as a warning signal, each flash lasting around a third of a second. To test the theory if blue-ringed octopuses could produce their own blue iridescence, scientists bathed the octopus samples in a wide range of chemicals that were known to affect chromatophores and iridophores. It was found that none of the chemicals used affected the octopuses' ability to produce its blue rings. It was also found that after examining the blue rings (specifically the iridophores) were seen to shift to the UV end of the spectrum which is a defining characteristic of multi-layer reflectors. It was also found that the iridophores are nicely tucked into the modified skin folds, kind of like pouches, which could be contracted by the muscles that connect the center of each ring to the rim. When the muscles then relax, the muscles around the perimeter of the ring contract which in turn causes the pouch to open to expose the iridescent flash. The octopus can then expand the brown chromatophores on either side of its ring to enhance the contrast of its iridescence. After all of the testing was complete, it was determined that the muscle contracting mechanisms was key to how the blue-ringed octopus portrayed its iridescent signaling success.

Distribution and habitat
The greater blue-ringed octopus is a benthic animal that has a solitary way of life and is widespread throughout the tropical and subtropical waters of the Indo-West Pacific, from Sri Lanka to the Philippines and from Australia to Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. The animal prefers shallow waters with a mixed seabed (such as rubble, reefs and sandy areas). As is true for all octopuses, it lives in a burrow and only comes out to search for food or a mate. The entrance of the shelter is littered with remains from meals (empty shells and crab shell and legs) and is easily identifiable.

Diet 
The blue-ringed octopus diet typically consists of small crabs and shrimp. They also tend to take advantage of small injured fish if they can catch them. Its known hunting behavior consists of pouncing on its prey, seizing it with its arms, and then pulling it towards its mouth. It uses its horny beak to pierce through the tough crab or shrimp exoskeleton, releasing its venom. The venom paralyzes the muscles required for movement, which effectively kills the prey.

Sex identification and mating behavior 
The initiation of physical...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_274 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Genomic island

A genomic island (GI) is part of a genome that has evidence of horizontal origins. The term is usually used in microbiology, especially with regard to bacteria. A GI can code for many functions, can be involved in symbiosis or pathogenesis, and may help an organism's adaptation. Many sub-classes of GIs exist that are based on the function that they confer. For example, a GI associated with pathogenesis is often called a pathogenicity island (PAIs), while GIs that contain many antibiotic resistant genes are referred to as antibiotic resistance islands. The same GI can occur in distantly related species as a result of various types of lateral gene transfer (transformation, conjugation, transduction). This can be determined by base composition analysis, as well as phylogeny estimations.

Computational prediction 

Various genomic island predictions programs have been developed. These tools can be broadly grouped into sequence based methods and comparative genomics/phylogeny based methods.

Sequence based methods depend on the naturally occurring variation that exists between the genome sequence composition of different species. Genomic regions that show abnormal sequence composition (such as nucleotide bias or codon bias) suggests that these regions may have been horizontally transferred. Two major problems with these methods are that false predictions can occur due to natural variation in the genome (sometimes due to highly expressed genes) and that horizontally transferred DNA will ameliorate (change to the host genome) over time; therefore, limiting predictions to only recently acquired GIs.

Comparative genomics based methods try to identify regions that show signs that they have been horizontally transferred using information from several related species. For example, a genomic region that is present in one species, but is not present in several other related species suggests that the region may have been horizontally transferred. The alternative explanations are (i) that the region was present in the common ancestor but has been lost in all the other species being compared, or (ii) that the region was absent in the common ancestor but was acquired through mutation and selection in the species in which it is still found. The argument for multiple deletions of the region would be strengthened if there is evidence from outgroups that the region was present in the common ancestor, or if the phylogeny implies relatively few actual deletion events would be required. The argument for acquisition via mutation would be strengthened if the species with the region is known to have diverged substantially from the other species, or if the region in question is small. The plausibility of either (i) or (ii) would be modified if taxon sampling omitted many extinct species that may have possessed the region, and particularly if extinction was correlated with the presence of the region.

One example of a method that integrates several of the most accurate GI prediction methods is IslandViewer.

Examples 
In bacteria, many type 3 secretion systems and type 4 secretion systems are located on regions of DNA called genomic islands. These "islands" are characterised by their large size(>10 Kb), their frequent association with tRNA-encoding genes and a different G+C content compared with the rest of the genome. Many genomic islands are flanked by repeat structures and carry fragments of other mobile elements such as phages and plasmids. Some genomic islands, including those adjacent to integrative and conjugative elements (ICE), can excise themselves spontaneously from the chromosome and can be transferred to other suitable recipients. While excision is dependent on the ICE machinery present, integration is attributed to integrases present on the genomic islands.

See also 
 Horizontal gene transfer

References

External links
 

Cell biology
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-57 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I thought I’d check in and see if you can help me crack this weird statistics problem. It’s not urgent—I've got some extra time today since I'm sort of between work tasks.

Chatbot: Of course, I’d be happy to help! What’s the problem you’re working on?

Person: Funny thing—I was supposed to work on a new project model today, but my team is doing some on-site hardware upgrade, so they told us to stay home and keep our laptops handy. I told my supervisor I’d dig into some professional development, so I figured stats problems qualify, right?

Chatbot: That definitely counts! Professional development can be a good use of time when you’re stuck waiting. What’s the stats problem you’re working on? I can walk you through the concepts or check your math, whatever you need.

Person: Okay, so here's the scenario: I have a dataset where I need to analyze variance between groups, but the groups are wildly different in size—one has just 4 observations and the other has almost 80. Do you think using an ANOVA is still justified, or should I be looking at nonparametric methods because of the uneven distribution?

Chatbot: That’s a great question. When the group sizes are highly unequal, it can make the usual ANOVA assumptions a bit shaky, particularly the assumption of homogeneity of variances. You might want to first run a Levene’s test for equality of variances. If the variances are very different, considering a nonparametric approach like the Kruskal-Wallis test could be a better fit. Also, be cautious about the statistical power with small groups—results from that smaller group may not be as reliable.

Person: That’s sort of what I was thinking. I ran Levene’s, actually, and the output flagged the difference as significant (p < 0.05). I haven’t used the Kruskal-Wallis test since high school—funny how those lessons stick with you. I don't have any post-secondary math credentials, but I guess the basics never go away!

Chatbot: Absolutely! Some of the best statistical intuition comes from the fundamentals learned early on. So, if Levene’s test indicates significant variance differences, Kruskal-Wallis would sidestep the homogeneity issue. If you’re planning post-hoc comparisons, just remember that nonparametric tests sometimes make it tricky.

Person: Noted. I’ll try a couple runs and compare the results. Sometimes it feels like I’m the odd duck out at the data office. So many folks on my team have advanced degrees. I just did the traditional cap-and-gown walk and went straight to work, but somehow, after all these years, I'm still the go-to person for spreadsheets and equations. Life’s funny.

Chatbot: It sounds like you have a lot of practical, hands-on experience, which sometimes is even more valuable than extra degrees. The fact that you’re the one people turn to speaks for itself.

Person: Thanks! It’s weird, though. Sometimes I feel underqualified, especially when talking to the fresh hires who have those fancy diplomas. Then again, I’m usually the person who fixes broken formulas or explains, like, residual plots at meetings. Guess it all works out.

Chatbot: Experience really does count. And it’s often the practical wisdom that solves problems in the real world, not just theory. Out of curiosity, do you tend to specialize in a particular area of statistics, or is your work broader?

Person: Broad, but I have a soft spot for probability models and simulation. My last gig before this was building random number generators for a fintech client. More recently it’s been a hodgepodge of predictive modeling and data visualizations. There’s no such thing as a “typical” day for someone doing data science in a government-adjacent job.

Chatbot: That sounds fascinating! Simulation and modeling require a solid mathematical foundation and a creative approach to problem-solving. It must be interesting seeing how your work influences real-world decisions.

Person: Absolutely, especially with the number crunching we do for city planning proposals. You wouldn’t believe how often zoning boards ask for Monte Carlo simulations so they can convince themselves their expansion won’t gridlock rush hour. The best part is translating the stats into plain English—half the battle is making decision-makers understand the numbers.

Chatbot: Being able to bridge that gap is an excellent skill. Are there any particular projects coming up that you’re excited about—or dreading?

Person: For sure. There’s this upcoming review of school district boundary changes. I get all the raw survey data and census numbers and have to create a report for the decision-makers. They always want to know, “Will students’ commute times go up?” and “How does it impact diversity in classrooms?” It means a ton of regression analysis and some geospatial mapping, which I nerd out about. What I don’t look forward to is presenting—talking in front of big crowds isn’t my forte, but I guess being behind the numbers is where I belong.

Chatbot: Presenting can definitely be daunting, but your expertise will shine through. If you’d like, I can suggest some techniques to make your findings more engaging for your audience.

Person: That’d be great. Honestly, I’d rather run simulations in my pajamas all day than get up and do a slideshow for a room full of board members. I like the behind-the-scenes work. One time, for a meeting, I used a heatmap with color shifts to show school bus routes—people were really impressed by seeing the commute times as colors, not just numbers.

Chatbot: That’s an excellent idea! Visualizations like heatmaps can communicate a lot of complex information simply and effectively. If you ever want help storyboard one of your presentations or need tips on data storytelling, let me know.

Person: I appreciate that. Sometimes I wish I could just hand out a spreadsheet and let people play around themselves, but that’s probably an uncommon opinion.

Chatbot: It’s rare for decision-makers to want to dig into raw data, but interactive dashboards are increasingly popular—they let users engage at their own pace while keeping the data accessible.

Person: Yeah, the IT side of things is always trying to build out more dashboards, but I’m usually the one cleaning the data first. I guess that’s what happens when you’re the resident “stats guy.” I don’t mind the rep, though—a lot of people assume I must have come through the academic pipeline, but really, I just picked everything up on the job and from my old math league days.

Chatbot: That’s impressive. It’s not easy to self-teach these skills, especially to the level where others rely on you.

Person: It definitely helps that I grew up around numbers. My mother was pretty good with budgets, and my dad did finance work overseas. I spent the first years of my life in a different country before we moved to the States, so I guess I had a somewhat international start before ending up in American schools.

Chatbot: That’s an interesting background. Did that international perspective influence your approach to problem-solving or your interest in math?

Person: I think it did. Seeing how things worked in two cultures made me realize there’s not just one way to solve a problem. Plus, having family in multiple time zones taught me to work asynchronously—a handy skill when you’re the guy fixing late-night spreadsheet errors! Also, I’m grateful I got to learn a bit of another language, though I’ll admit I’m rusty now.

Chatbot: Multilingualism can be a great asset for communication, especially in the data world. Do you ever use those language skills in your work today?

Person: Not much, but every once in a while I get a dataset in another language—then it’s a scramble! But most of the time, it’s about finding patterns, which doesn’t need much translation beyond the numbers.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Speaking of patterns, do you ever apply your statistical knowledge outside of work? Any interesting math hobbies or puzzles?

Person: All the time! Crosswords, Sudoku, even probability puzzles are my jam. I have a small collection of Rubik’s cubes at home—I can solve one in under a minute on a good day. My old math club would still recognize me as the guy who always had a puzzle in his jacket pocket. And let’s just say I still hold bragging rights from the last fantasy football league—calculated draft picks for the win.

Chatbot: That sounds like great fun! It seems math follows you everywhere, whether you’re on the job or off. By the way, about your current work situation—you mentioned you’re waiting for hardware upgrades. Is that a common occurrence, or just a one-off?

Person: It’s pretty rare, honestly. Usually, I’m in the office plugging away at code or debugging someone’s data pipeline. Today, my supervisor called and told me to log in remotely and sit tight, just in case the system comes online early. In the meantime, I guess it’s my “semi-day off,” but I’m officially on the clock. If I get that “urgent” email, I have to drop everything and jump right into work.

Chatbot: Having that flexibility must be nice, at least for catching up or unwinding a little between projects. Do you find working from home productive?

Person: It depends. I like the quiet, but it’s easy to get sidetracked by, say, making a sandwich or organizing the bookshelf. Still, no commute means more sleep—that’s a win! Plus, there’s no need to shave every morning, so small victories.

Chatbot: Every silver lining helps! How do you keep yourself motivated during these in-between periods?

Person: Usually, I try to set small goals—even if it’s just cleaning my inbox or automating a couple data pulls. Otherwise, I feel fidgety. Not having a packed schedule is new to me; in my old job, they kept us hustling. But my supervisor gives me the benefit of the doubt; as long as the work's done, there’s room for a bit of flexibility.

Chatbot: It seems like you have a good system in place. What advice would you give to someone just starting in your line of work—particularly someone who might not have a university diploma?

Person: Honestly? Don’t let lack of formal degrees hold you back. I mean, I stopped formal schooling after high school. It’s about being curious, having the patience to learn on the job, and not being afraid to ask questions—even if you feel out of your depth. Work ethic and initiative matter a lot. And getting involved in math circles—clubs, online forums, competitions—can give you more exposure than you’d think.

Chatbot: That’s inspiring! It’s good to hear that practical experience can outweigh traditional pathways. If you could go back and do it over, would you take a different route, or are you satisfied with how things have turned out?

Person: I’m content, honestly. I like that I found my own path—sometimes it’s better to prove yourself outside the classroom. Also, I get to do what I enjoy without massive student debt hanging over my head. Maybe one day I’ll take a couple night classes, just for fun, but I don’t feel like I’m missing out professionally.

Chatbot: That’s a balanced perspective. Are you considering certifications, or are you more interested in self-study?

Person: I’m leaning towards self-study for now. I like learning at my own pace, and there’s so much free material online—videos, open courses, and the like. Most skills I use were learned by tinkering with spreadsheets or solving practice problems from library books. I think initiative counts more than formal paperwork.

Chatbot: Very true! One last question—if you could automate one mundane aspect of your job, what would it be?

Person: Easy answer: reconciling monthly reports across departments. Nothing is more tedious than repeatedly crosschecking columns and chasing down that one missing decimal. If there was an AI that could automate that (and not mess up the formatting), I’d be first in line.

Chatbot: Automating repetitive reconciliation tasks is a strong candidate for process improvement. With your math background and coding skills, perhaps you could prototype a basic script or tool to make it easier.

Person: That’s on my project list! Maybe that’ll be my “between tasks” project the next time the office systems go offline for an upgrade. Until then, I’ll keep being the go-to “numbers guy.” At least it keeps things interesting.

Chatbot: I’m sure your team appreciates your expertise behind the scenes. If you ever need an extra pair of virtual hands for debugging or brainstorming, you know where to find me.

Person: Thanks. I’ll definitely keep that in mind. For now, I'm going to take advantage of this rare break—maybe sneak in a crossword before my email pings.

Chatbot: Sounds like a good plan. Good luck with your statistics problem and your day!

Person: Appreciate it—talk to you later!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-44 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thank you for squeezing me in today.
Doctor: Good morning! Not a problem at all. What brings you in?
Patient: Well, I've been feeling a bit more run down than usual the last couple of months, and was hoping to discuss some ongoing fatigue and the headaches I’ve been experiencing, especially in the afternoons while I’m at work.
Doctor: Sorry to hear that. Let’s start from the top. Can you tell me a bit about your daily routine?
Patient: Sure. Most of my days are routed around schedules and deadlines. I spend a lot of my mornings shifting between different spreadsheets, updating orders, and making calls to suppliers. By midday, my eyes start to feel strained, and honestly, by around three or four, there’s almost always some last-minute request or delay that pops up.
Doctor: That sounds intense. Are you able to get much movement during your workday?
Patient: Not too much. My job keeps me at a desk, but occasionally I have to walk between departments to check on shipments or clarify paperwork issues. But the majority of the time, I’m glued to my screen or phone.
Doctor: Do you find your headaches happen more during the days you’re dealing with more stress or is it pretty steady?
Patient: I would say it’s tied to the pressure. Especially at the end of each month, when everyone’s in a rush and I’m caught coordinating multiple teams. Sometimes, I barely notice until I finally stop and realize how tense I am.
Doctor: Can you describe the headaches? For example, where’s the pain, and how severe does it get?
Patient: Mostly it’s a dull ache across my temples, sometimes it feels like a tight band around my forehead. Occasionally, the ache moves down my neck and shoulders. Not really sharp, but enough to distract me from what I’m doing. On a scale of one to ten, I’d say usually around a five.
Doctor: Does anything make it better or worse?
Patient: Stepping away from my desk and taking a quick walk helps a little. Drinking water seems to take the edge off too. But—I rarely get to do that as often as I should, since the work just keeps piling up.
Doctor: Any changes in your sleep habits or appetite?
Patient: Sleep has not been ideal. I try to get to bed by eleven, but sometimes end up awake longer, just thinking about all that needs to be done. Meals are regular though; lunch tends to be quick so I can get back to the phone calls.
Doctor: Understood. Are you taking any ongoing medications? Any significant past medical issues?
Patient: No medications, thankfully. I’ve been lucky on the health front, other than a few bouts of seasonal allergies and an ankle sprain from years ago. Nothing else comes to mind.
Doctor: Any family history of migraines or other neurological conditions?
Patient: My dad used to get migraines occasionally, but no one else in the family has similar issues.
Doctor: That’s helpful to note. With the headaches and fatigue, have you noticed any vision changes, weakness, or other new symptoms?
Patient: Sometimes, things do blur toward the end of a long day, mostly if I’ve been staring at the screen too long. But if I take a break, it usually resolves. There’s some tension in my shoulders, which I always chalked up to posture.
Doctor: Makes sense given the nature of your job. Have there been any recent stressful life events or changes at work?
Patient: Well, our office just switched to a new software for order processing about two months ago, right before the last full moon festival. That changeover was pretty hectic—lots of extra hours ironing out kinks. And with my role in making sure things run on schedule from receiving to shipping, there’s always something to keep me on my toes.
Doctor: It sounds like your work involves lots of coordination and quick responses—almost like orchestrating moving pieces in a factory line.
Patient: That's right. Sometimes I joke with my friends that I'm basically a traffic controller for paperwork. If I fall behind on the schedules, everyone downstream feels it. It gets especially busy when we’re ramping up for big order deadlines or holiday seasons—there’s a certain adrenaline to it, but it can definitely wear you down.
Doctor: Have you tried any techniques to reduce stress while working? Maybe stretching, meditation, or short walks?
Patient: I’ve tried deep breathing a few times when things get overwhelming. Also, there's a spot at the end of the hallway where I can stare out the window for a few minutes—on clear days, I can even see the skyline off in the distance if I squint past the office park. Some of my colleagues have suggested yoga, too.
Doctor: That’s a good start. Outside of work, do you get time to rest or pursue hobbies?
Patient: I make time for reading and catching up with my family. We have a tradition of cooking together on Sundays, which is a nice break. Whenever possible, I catch up with friends and head out to watch cricket matches in the community park—everyone’s always yelling and celebrating when the Indian team plays.
Doctor: Sounds wonderful. You mentioned family—do you live with your relatives?
Patient: Yes, my parents live nearby, and they visit quite often, especially when there’s a festival coming up. Beginning of June is always busy—there’s the annual prayers and a little get-together. My daughter always helps set up the mithai platters. She’s gotten so good at it!
Doctor: June sounds like quite a month for you and your family.
Patient: It is! Ever since I turned, well, that special number last year, my family insists on making it a big celebration. My friends still joke that I share my birth month with Prince, and that my actual birthday always falls right before those big summer sales ads come out. You should have seen my cake last year—purple with music notes!
Doctor: That sounds delightful! So you were born in the late seventies then?
Patient: Yes, the year when the first test-tube baby was born and the world cup fever swept through. My parents still have old photos from those days—me swaddled in blankets, radio blaring away in the background.
Doctor: What a time to grow up. And you mentioned your daughter—do you feel your fatigue is affecting your time with her?
Patient: Sometimes I have to cut playtime short or ask her to help more around the kitchen because I just feel wiped out. I don’t want her to think I’m not interested, but after a long week of sorting out supplier delays or last-minute inventory hiccups, I just need a breather.
Doctor: That’s completely understandable. How old is your daughter now?
Patient: She just turned sixteen last fall. We celebrated with gulab jamun and karaoke, much to her embarrassment.
Doctor: That’s sweet. And you all live close by?
Patient: Yes, most of our clan is in this area. We stay in a leafy suburb, not far from the city. Summers here get muggy fast, but I love driving past the pine barrens on the way to my favorite bakery. My daughter attends high school nearby, and sometimes I’ll pick her up and we’ll detour for dosa at that place that opened near Edison.
Doctor: That area has a great food scene, I’ve heard! How’s your support system? Anyone to help on those extra busy days?
Patient: My younger brother is nearby, too, and he often helps ferry things between my office and my parents’ store if I get tied up. Our whole extended group gets together for Diwali and Holi, which means lots of cooking and catching up. And we always share recipes—my mom’s chana masala is the gold standard!
Doctor: That’s wonderful. You seem to have a close-knit group around you. Now, regarding your headaches and fatigue, do you ever have other symptoms like dizziness, numbness, or difficulties with balance?
Patient: No, never anything like that. Occasionally if I don’t eat on time, I’ll feel a little dizzy, but it passes after lunch. I’ve always had low blood pressure, though nothing my doctor has worried about.
Doctor: Good to hear. Have you had any recent physical exams? It might be helpful to check some basic labs, just to rule out anemia or thyroid changes.
Patient: My last full checkup was over a year ago—just before the kids got out for summer break, actually. Back then everything was fine, but it wouldn’t hurt to check again.
Doctor: Absolutely. We can arrange a comprehensive panel to be sure. Given your workload and long hours at a desk, I also recommend ensuring your workstation is ergonomically set up. Maybe consider an eye exam if you haven’t had one recently.
Patient: That’s a good idea. I actually got my glasses updated a few years ago, after my manager teased me for misreading a shipping label—was during the World Cup, actually. Maybe I’m overdue for another test.
Doctor: It’s definitely worth following up. And about your sleep—are you able to participate in relaxing evening routines? Anything special that helps?
Patient: My mother-in-law recommends warm haldi milk, which I try a few times a week. I try reading or listening to some old Lata Mangeshkar songs at bedtime—my daughter groans when I do, but it’s soothing.
Doctor: Music can do wonders. So you work mostly standard office hours, or is overtime common?
Patient: Normal days start around nine and finish by six, but when we’re closing the books for the month, I’ll sometimes be the last one out, making sure all the orders are aligned before the new shipments arrive. That would have been impossible if not for a good cup of masala chai to keep me going through those late nights.
Doctor: With all you balance, it’s no wonder you feel run down at times. Your diet sounds generally good—any changes in weight or appetite?
Patient: No significant changes. I try to bring a home-cooked meal when I can. Sometimes, during the busy season, I’ll grab something from the cafeteria instead, but I prefer homemade food—less oil, more flavor. That’s the way I grew up, you know? My grandma insisted that dal and sabzi kept you strong.
Doctor: Absolutely. Based on what you’re describing, it’s very likely your symptoms are related to a combination of work stress, posture, possibly some mild dehydration, and irregular sleep. But it’s reassuring that you’re otherwise healthy. I do think some bloodwork and an eye test are good next steps.
Patient: That sounds reasonable, doctor. Do you have any tips for managing stress during those days when the emails and calls just never seem to end?
Doctor: Yes, a few come to mind: schedule brief, regular breaks, even just to stand up and stretch; stay hydrated; try mindfulness exercises if possible; and, if possible, delegate tasks or ask for help when you’re feeling overloaded. Since you work so closely to moving schedules and logistics, maybe block specific times for email and urgent tasks to prevent burnout.
Patient: I’ll do my best. My colleagues and I are always swapping ideas for staying sane during those crunch times. Sometimes we’ll even host potlucks to break up the monotony—last year, I brought in a batch of the mango pickle my aunt sent from back home.
Doctor: That’s fantastic. Before we wrap up, are there any other concerns or health goals you want to discuss today?
Patient: Not at the moment. After this check-up, I’m hoping to just get back to feeling my old self—ready for those whirlwind days chasing down suppliers and making sure nothing gets missed on the schedules. Gotta stay sharp, especially before the next busy season kicks in after Memorial Day.
Doctor: Perfect. Let’s set up those labs and circle back after we have the results. If anything changes or gets worse, feel free to contact me immediately. Otherwise, I look forward to seeing you, hopefully with less fatigue!
Patient: Thank you, doctor. I appreciate your time—and your advice. I promise I’ll try to take a real break next time the screens start to blur!
Doctor: That’s all I can ask. It’s been a pleasure, and I wish you plenty of energy (and maybe a few more windows to gaze out of) until next time.
Patient: Thank you. Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_19 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Biennial plant

A biennial plant is a flowering plant that, generally in a temperate climate, takes two years to complete its biological life cycle.

In its first year, the biennial plant undergoes primary growth, during which its vegetative structures (leaves, stems, and roots) develop. Usually, the stem of the plant remains short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. After one year's growing season, the plant enters a period of dormancy for the colder months. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization before they will flower. During the next spring or summer, the stem of the biennial plant elongates greatly, or "bolts". The plant then flowers, producing fruits and seeds before it finally dies. There are far fewer biennials than either perennial plants or annual plants.

Biennials do not always follow a strict two-year life cycle and the majority of plants in the wild can take 3 or more years to fully mature. Rosette leaf size has been found to predict when a plant may enter its second stage of flowering and seed production. Alternatively, under extreme climatic conditions, a biennial plant may complete its life cycle rapidly (e.g., in three months instead of two years). This is quite common in vegetable or flower seedlings that were vernalized before they were planted in the ground. This behavior leads to many normally biennial plants being treated as annuals in some areas. Conversely, an annual grown under extremely favorable conditions may have highly successful seed propagation, giving it the appearance of being biennial or perennial. Some short-lived perennials may appear to be biennial rather than perennial. True biennials flower only once, while many perennials will flower every year once mature.

Biennials grown for flowers, fruits, or seeds are grown for two years, whereas those grown for edible leaves or roots are harvested after one year—and are not kept a second year to run to seed.

Examples of biennial plants are members of the onion family including leek, some members of the cabbage family, common mullein, parsley, fennel, Lunaria, silverbeet, black-eyed Susan, sweet William, colic weed, carrot, and some hollyhocks. Plant breeders have produced annual cultivars of several biennials that will flower the first year from seed, for example, foxglove and stock.

See also

References

 
Garden plants
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_57 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Two-way finite automaton

In computer science, in particular in automata theory, a two-way finite automaton is a finite automaton that is allowed to re-read its input.

Two-way deterministic finite automaton

A two-way deterministic finite automaton (2DFA) is an abstract machine, a generalized version of the deterministic finite automaton (DFA) which can revisit characters already processed. As in a DFA, there are a finite number of states with transitions between them based on the current character, but each transition is also labelled with a value indicating whether the machine will move its position in the input to the left, right, or stay at the same position. Equivalently, 2DFAs can be seen as read-only Turing machines with no work tape, only a read-only input tape.

2DFAs were introduced in a seminal 1959 paper by Rabin and Scott, who proved them to have equivalent power to one-way DFAs. That is, any formal language which can be recognized by a 2DFA can be recognized by a DFA which only examines and consumes each character in order. Since DFAs are obviously a special case of 2DFAs, this implies that both kinds of machines recognize precisely the class of regular languages. However, the equivalent DFA for a 2DFA may require exponentially many states, making 2DFAs a much more practical representation for algorithms for some common problems.

2DFAs are also equivalent to read-only Turing machines that use only a constant amount of space on their work tape, since any constant amount of information can be incorporated into the finite control state via a product construction (a state for each combination of work tape state and control state).

Formal description 

Formally, a two-way deterministic finite automaton can be described by the following 8-tuple:  where
  is the finite, non-empty set of states
  is the finite, non-empty set of input symbols
  is the left endmarker
  is the right endmarker
 
  is the start state
  is the end state
  is the reject state

In addition, the following two conditions must also be satisfied:
 For all 
 for some 
 for some 
It says that there must be some transition possible when the pointer reaches either end of the input word.
 For all symbols 
 
 
 
 
It says that once the automaton reaches the accept or reject state, it stays in there forever and the pointer goes to the right most symbol and cycles there infinitely.

Two-way nondeterministic finite automaton 

A two-way nondeterministic finite automaton (2NFA) may have multiple transitions defined in the same configuration. Its transition function is 
 .
Like a standard one-way NFA, a 2NFA accepts a string if at least one of the possible computations is accepting. Like the 2DFAs, the 2NFAs also accept only regular languages.

Two-way alternating finite automaton

A two-way alternating finite automaton (2AFA) is a two-way extension of an alternating finite automaton (AFA). Its state set is

  where .

States in  and  are called existential resp. universal. In an existential state a 2AFA nondeterministically chooses the next state like an NFA, and accepts if at least one of the resulting computations accepts. In a universal state 2AFA moves to all next states, and accepts if all the resulting computations accept.

State complexity tradeoffs

Two-way and one-way finite automata, deterministic and nondeterministic and alternating, accept the same class of regular languages. However, transforming an automaton of one type to an equivalent automaton of another type incurs a blow-up in the number of states. Christos Kapoutsis determined that transforming an -state 2DFA to an equivalent DFA requires  states in the worst case. If an -state 2DFA or a 2NFA is transformed to an NFA, the worst-case number of states required is . Ladner, Lipton and Stockmeyer. proved that an -state 2AFA can be converted to a DFA with  states. The 2AFA to NFA conversion requires  states in the worst case, see Geffert and Okhotin.

It is an open problem whether every 2NFA can be converted to a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-60 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi there, thanks for hopping on the call today. How’s everything going for you?

Target: Hey! Not too bad, thanks for asking. It’s been a bit of a transition period lately. But all good.

Other: I totally get that—is this about making a career move or something else?

Target: Kind of a mix. I’m in between gigs at the moment. Just wrapping up with the car rental counter, so looking around for what’s next.

Other: Oh, I see. So you were doing the counter work there for a while? I bet you’ve got some stories from that.

Target: Oh, you have no idea! A couple years behind the service desk at a rental spot and you see everything. The customers, the paperwork, and the lost keys… all of it.

Other: Did you work at one of those airport locations?

Target: Downtown, actually, but right by the hotels, so it was always packed after flights came in. I was the one they’d go to if someone needed a last-minute van or a compact.

Other: Sounds like you really had to juggle a lot. If you don’t mind me asking, what made you leave?

Target: The hours got a little wild, and honestly, they started cutting them back, so it didn’t make sense to stick around. Lately, I’ve been focusing on finding more stable options.

Other: Makes sense. And while you look around, do you have any side projects or anything you’re exploring?

Target: Just keeping busy with a little bit of everything—family, helping my aunt with her little store, you know how it is when you’ve got time on your hands.

Other: Absolutely. Where does your family live, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Oh, most of us are still here in town, but my roots go way out. My mom moved over to the mainland from the islands—the far ones, out in the Pacific.

Other: Really? That sounds fascinating. Was that a big culture shift for everyone?

Target: Kind of, yeah. I was actually born out on the tropical side, somewhere between the ocean and palm trees—let’s just say it wasn’t the continental US. Not many folks here can say that, you know?

Other: That’s so unique! I bet it definitely shaped who you are. What’s your background, if you don’t mind me getting personal?

Target: No worries! So on my dad’s side, it’s all about the Polynesian blood. My grandma made sure I knew how to make lu pulu and wear a proper puletasi. We’re from that group with those epic tattoos and rugby skills—if you’ve seen the haka, you’ll get the vibe.

Other: Wow, that’s awesome. Samoan culture is beautiful—and strong. Do you keep any traditions going here?

Target: For sure, especially when it comes to big family potlucks—or fa’alavelave, you know. I still try to keep the language alive as well, especially with my younger cousins.

Other: That’s great you can carry those traditions forward. So, going back to job stuff—are you looking to stay in sales or something different?

Target: Sales is what I know best! I’ve always been comfortable at the desk or behind the counter, setting up rentals or chatting up folks about extra coverage or upgrades. People tell me I could sell sand at the beach. So if there’s a role for someone with counter and rental chops, sign me up.

Other: Sounds like your customer service game is strong! Let me shift gears and ask—do you have experience with any payment systems or handling customer transactions?

Target: Absolutely. At the rental place, I’d process everything from cash to cards. I got so used to reading out long card numbers over the phone, I could probably rattle them off backwards. Like, one time I had to verify a booking for “3024-0268-1177-57”—I still remember the sequence, it sticks in your head after a while.

Other: Impressive recall! That attention to detail is rare. Any particular software systems or platforms you’re most comfortable with?

Target: Just about anything basic—our system was mostly old-school terminals but I picked up the rental booking platforms pretty quick. Doesn’t hurt that I’m patient enough to guide folks through hiccups without getting flustered.

Other: That’s great and super transferable. Switching topics just a little, you mentioned you’re between jobs. How are you finding the job market these days?

Target: It’s a bit of a slog, honestly. I’ve been applying to everything from front desk to sales, but things are moving slow and competition is tough, especially when you’re coming from a gap in employment.

Other: If I may, do you find companies asking about that gap?

Target: All the time! But I just tell them life happens—you help family, you stay afloat however you can, but I’m ready to get right back behind the counter or sales desk.

Other: Makes sense, and I’m sure your resilience shines through. Do you feel that being a woman in that field has affected the way folks interact with you, especially at the counter?

Target: Oh, totally. I think people expect the dude in the suit, but I roll up with my “she/her” nametag and keep things moving. Some days it’s a plus, others not so much, but I always keep it professional.

Other: Love that attitude. I appreciate you sharing. Before we wrap, is there anything I can help with—maybe resume feedback, or referring your info somewhere?

Target: Actually, that’d be great. I’m tweaking my resume to highlight the sales side more. If you know someone looking for a front-desk pro, or anyone who values face-to-face skills, I’d love a connection.

Other: For sure, I’ll keep an eye out. Anything else you want me to know?

Target: Just that I hit the ground running, adapt quick, and I know all the ins and outs of handling tricky customers. Whether it’s at a rental kiosk or retail counter, I’ve got the people skills—and the patience!

Other: Sounds like you absolutely do. Thanks so much for chatting with me today. I’ll be in touch if I hear of anything.

Target: Thank you so much for the time, it means a lot. Have a great rest of your week!

Other: You too! Take care.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_48 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Ω-consistent theory

In mathematical logic, an ω-consistent (or omega-consistent, also called numerically segregative) theory is a theory (collection of sentences) that is not only (syntactically) consistent (that is, does not prove a contradiction), but also avoids proving certain infinite combinations of sentences that are intuitively contradictory. The name is due to Kurt Gödel, who introduced the concept in the course of proving the incompleteness theorem.

Definition 

A theory T is said to interpret the language of arithmetic if there is a translation of formulas of arithmetic into the language of T so that T is able to prove the basic axioms of the natural numbers under this translation.

A T that interprets arithmetic is ω-inconsistent if, for some property P of natural numbers (defined by a formula in the language of T), T proves P(0), P(1), P(2), and so on (that is, for every standard natural number n, T proves that P(n) holds), but T also proves that there is some natural number n such that P(n) fails. This may not generate a contradiction within T because T may not be able to prove for any specific value of n that P(n) fails, only that there is such an n. In particular, such n is necessarily a nonstandard integer in any model for T (Quine has thus called such theories "numerically insegregative").

T is ω-consistent if it is not ω-inconsistent.

There is a weaker but closely related property of Σ1-soundness. A theory T is Σ1-sound (or 1-consistent, in another terminology) if every Σ01-sentence provable in T is true in the standard model of arithmetic N (i.e., the structure of the usual natural numbers with addition and multiplication).
If T is strong enough to formalize a reasonable model of computation, Σ1-soundness is equivalent to demanding that whenever T proves that a Turing machine C halts, then C actually halts. Every ω-consistent theory is Σ1-sound, but not vice versa.

More generally, we can define an analogous concept for higher levels of the arithmetical hierarchy. If Γ is a set of arithmetical sentences (typically Σ0n for some n), a theory T is Γ-sound if every Γ-sentence provable in T is true in the standard model. When Γ is the set of all arithmetical formulas, Γ-soundness is called just (arithmetical) soundness.
If the language of T consists only of the language of arithmetic (as opposed to, for example, set theory), then a sound system is one whose model can be thought of as the set ω, the usual set of mathematical natural numbers. The case of general T is different, see ω-logic below.

Σn-soundness has the following computational interpretation: if the theory proves that a program C using a Σn−1-oracle halts, then C actually halts.

Examples

Consistent, ω-inconsistent theories 
Write PA for the theory Peano arithmetic, and Con(PA) for the statement of arithmetic that formalizes the claim "PA is consistent". Con(PA) could be of the form "For every natural number n, n is not the Gödel number of a proof from PA that 0=1". (This formulation uses 0=1 instead of a direct contradiction; that gives the same result, because PA certainly proves ¬0=1, so if it proved 0=1 as well we would have a contradiction, and on the other hand, if PA proves a contradiction, then it proves anything, including 0=1.)

Now, assuming PA is really consistent, it follows that PA + ¬Con(PA) is also consistent, for if it were not, then PA would prove Con(PA) (reductio), contradicting Gödel's second incompleteness theorem. However, PA + ¬Con(PA) is not ω-consistent. This is because, for any particular natural number n, PA + ¬Con(PA) proves that n is not the Gödel number of a proof that 0=1 (PA itself proves that fact; the extra assumption ¬Con(PA) is not needed). However, PA + ¬Con(PA) proves that, for some natural number n, n is the Gödel number of such a proof (this is just a direct restatement of the claim ¬Con(PA)).

In this example, the axiom ¬Con(PA) is Σ1, hence the system PA + ¬Con(PA) is in fact Σ1-unsound, not just...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-77 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, are you able to hear me okay? My connection’s been a little spotty all morning.

Other: Yep, you’re coming through fine. Thanks for jumping on, I know your schedule’s packed. How’s your week going?

Target: It’s been good, though a bit overwhelming—everyone’s rushing to finalize their Q1 reports before the month wraps up, so you know how it is. I feel like my life has just become a whirlwind of expense ledgers and double-checking spreadsheets for tiny mismatches, and we’re not even at tax season’s peak yet.

Other: Welcome to the world of finance, right? I remember those days when working in audits—sometimes it felt like the numbers never stopped rolling in. But hey, at least you’re lucky enough to work with variety, right? Not every client’s the same.

Target: For sure, and with this job I get to see so many different business stories just from their ledgers. Though, honestly, I’m probably not the typical accountant most people picture—not just crunching numbers but kind of stuck in between worlds in a way. Maybe that’s why I got into this in the first place. I’m used to weaving between perspectives.

Other: That’s interesting! What do you mean about weaving between worlds? Is it something you picked up growing up?

Target: Pretty much. Both my mom and dad come from different backgrounds, so at home there was always this blend of traditions. Some days my grandma would cook cornbread, and the next it’d be dumplings or tamales. No two family reunions looked alike—sometimes the music was jazz, sometimes mariachi, and sometimes both blaring at the same time. I can count on one hand the people at my school with the same sort of mix.

Other: That must have made you a pro at navigating balance early on! Did you ever find that influenced how you approach things in the office, especially when dealing with tricky clients or tricky figures?

Target: Absolutely. Having that sort of background forces you to read a room quickly and bridge gaps, whether it’s in culture or in numbers. Sometimes I’m the only one on the team who knows how to make everyone agree on something, because I know how to translate between different expectations. 

Other: I wish we had more of that in our own department. Lots of straight lines, if you know what I mean. Hard to get folks to meet in the middle sometimes. Speaking of—how did you end up in this field so young? Most of my colleagues did the whole college and years of training before coming near the books.

Target: Well, I started a bit ahead of the curve, at least for my age—I had to. High school offered an accounting elective, which honestly saved me. It was more interesting than any lit class and way less intimidating than algebra. I started part-time with a local accountant after school—he took a risk on me, maybe because his daughter was in my math class—and then things just kept rolling from there.

Other: That’s impressive! So you managed to jump ahead and get some hands-on experience while most folks your age were still figuring themselves out.

Target: Yeah, tell me about it. Sometimes when I’m in meetings and realize most of the people around the table expect me to talk about prom and football games, not 401(k)’s and asset statements, it’s a little odd. The thing no one really knows is that I actually haven’t finished school yet. I’m in that year where people start learning to drive. Most of my friends are still prepping for their PSATs, not their client reviews.

Other: Wait, wow—you mean you’re still in high school? That’s... that’s impressive. You don’t meet many sophomores working the numbers in asset management.

Target: Yeah, sophomore. Whenever someone asks how I manage tax season and homework, I just shrug and say it’s about prioritizing, but really, I just love the work. Math classes feel less stressful when you’re balancing someone’s payroll on the side.

Other: You must have had a head for numbers from early on then. And parents who support your own ambitions, I’d guess.

Target: For sure, and an older cousin who would help me with my first spreadsheets, way back in middle school. My parents never had to worry about my grades, just how many hours I was logging at the desk instead of outside. It probably helps that I was always here, rather than moving around—never had to get used to new schools, just the new teachers coming in each year.

Other: Born and bred here, huh? So you’ve always had that local vibe.

Target: Yeah. Even my birth certificate looks almost boring, it’s so normal—no international stamps or anything. All the schools I went to, the places where I’ve worked internships, everything’s been within the same city limits. I’ve never had to worry about filling out forms that ask about where I was born. 

Other: That probably made things simpler for starting work early, right? Some of those regulatory forms are a nightmare if you weren’t. How do you handle the age thing at work—do folks take you seriously?

Target: Sometimes it’s tough to be taken seriously, especially when a client realizes I’m not even old enough to vote yet. I remember last year someone tried to hand out drinks at a celebration party, and HR stepped in fast—let’s just say I was jokingly awarded “Best ID Under 18.” But if you’re good at what you do, the right people notice, age aside.

Other: Being the youngest in the room can give you an edge—fresh ideas, but also fresh perspective. Out of curiosity, does your birthday ever fall during those hectic financial periods?

Target: Actually, my birthday always falls during the longest lull every year, right before everyone gets antsy about daylight savings and spring numbers. It’s funny, because as a kid, I always associated it with stuffing my face on cake and then a week later trying to figure out what to give up for Lent at church.

Other: That puts your birthday sometime late February then, with Lent right after… 

Target: Right, I’m always seeing those "happy birthday" messages right about the time folks start buying Valentine’s clearance. This year was a small one—just a dozen people from work, a couple friends from my old study group, and I got to eat way too much red velvet. And there was an accounting joke on my cake, of course.

Other: So, you’re what, just turned 17?

Target: Yep, seventeen just a couple months ago. I’m in that strange stage where half the kids my age are dreaming about finally getting wheels and I’m staring at forms about tax audits and payroll compliance. I do still have to fit homework in between all my balance sheets, though.

Other: That’s incredible. And balancing high school with your work in finance seems like a juggling act. Are your teachers supportive?

Target: Most are, though some just shake their heads and try to keep me from zoning out in algebra. I had to convince the principal that my missing some team assemblies for work stuff was actually worth it. One of the counselors started calling me "the numbers kid" and now the nickname’s kind of stuck.

Other: It sounds like your drive and adaptability set you apart, honestly. Do you ever feel like you’re missing out on anything by not taking the traditional path through school?

Target: Sometimes—most of my classmates are prepping for the dance or the next football game, and I’m focused on closing ledgers before our client site visits. I wish I had more time to just relax, or maybe to join one of the robotics clubs. But the trade-off is, I’m getting to build a career before most of my friends even choose a college major. And home’s always a mix of music and food from all over, which helps me feel less out of sync.

Other: You clearly embrace the richness of your family’s background. Do you ever get questions about your identity from coworkers, or do you keep that private?

Target: People are usually curious when I mention that my celebrations are a little bit of everything—like one year, my mom set up an altar for Día de los Muertos at the same time as my dad tried to get us all to watch the Rose Parade. Sometimes I see people trying to figure out where I “fit,” but honestly, I’ve gotten good at just being myself and letting them draw their own conclusions.

Other: That’s a wonderful attitude. It sounds like you bring a layered perspective to any team you join. And going back to your career—do you see yourself specializing more in audits or something else in finance?

Target: Audits have that puzzle-solving edge I love, but I’m interested in branching out—maybe forensic accounting, tracking down numbers that don’t add up for a bigger reason. There’s something thrilling about seeing a spreadsheet that looks right at first but knowing there’s a story under the surface.

Other: Sounds like you’re already thinking ahead, which makes sense for someone who started young. Have your family been able to support you with all these ambitions?

Target: They have, even if sometimes all they understand about what I do is “check the math.” But they’re good at reminding me to take pride in every part of who I am—whether that’s following family recipes, speaking some Spanish with my uncle or playing dominoes with my other grandma. Kind of fitting that half our extended family reunions are a little United Nations, honestly.

Other: So in the middle of all the numbers, you still get to stay connected to both sides of your heritage. Must make holidays pretty exciting when you’re mixing so many traditions.

Target: It does! Lunar New Year turns into a fusion with Mardi Gras at our house—my little cousins running around with red envelopes and beads, and my aunt insisting we eat black-eyed peas and dumplings. It keeps things interesting and makes me proud to bring a bit of that to work, even if it’s just sharing a homemade snack now and then in the break room.

Other: That’s fantastic. With all the family and career commitments, do you ever plan to pursue a college degree later, or do you think real-world experience will keep you moving forward?

Target: Honestly, I feel like there’s still a lot to learn before I even think about college. Seeing classmates talk about campus visits makes me wonder if I’m missing out, but the work I do now is teaching me things that school can’t. Maybe down the line, I’ll look at a degree, but right now I’m just focusing on getting through sophomore year and not letting the midterms get too far out of hand.

Other: It’s refreshing to hear you’re keeping your options open. Sometimes, not fitting the expected mold creates the best opportunities. Do your coworkers ever notice your energy stands out?

Target: Some do, especially when they find out my music taste is all over the place—from salsa to blues to old Motown. I actually DJ’d the last office holiday party, which was hilarious since I had to play half current hits and half throwbacks for the partners. I guess it shows I’m used to juggling a lot at once.

Other: Sounds like you’re as good at mixing beats as you are at mixing spreadsheets! Before we wrap up, any advice you’d give to someone who finds themselves in between worlds, whether in culture or in career, the way you have?

Target: I’d say—learn to take pride in having more than one story to tell. Whether that’s at home or at work, don’t let people box you in. Use it, because it gives you more ways to solve problems and connect with others. And don’t worry if your path doesn’t match what textbooks say—a nontraditional road sometimes leads to the best destinations, even if you have to balance client calls with calculus homework.

Other: That’s wise beyond your years, seriously. Thank you for sharing your story today. I’ve actually got a couple of colleagues who could use your perspective—I hope you won’t mind if I mention your experience, without naming names, of course.

Target: No problem at all. If it helps someone else see themselves in the work, I’d be all for it. And if anyone needs tips on surviving back-to-back deadlines and geometry quizzes, send them my way.

Other: Will do! Thanks again for taking the time, and for being so open. Let’s touch base again once the quarter closes. I’m sure you’ll have plenty of new tales by then.

Target: Looking forward to it! Have a great rest of your week. And good luck with your own audits.

Other: Thanks, you too. Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_122 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Hybrid algorithm (constraint satisfaction)

Within artificial intelligence and operations research for constraint satisfaction a hybrid algorithm solves a constraint satisfaction problem by the combination of two different methods, for example variable conditioning (backtracking, backjumping, etc.) and constraint inference (arc consistency, variable elimination, etc.)

Hybrid algorithms exploit the good properties of different methods by applying them to problems they can efficiently solve. For example, search is efficient when the problem has many solutions, while inference is efficient in proving unsatisfiability of overconstrained problems.

Cycle cutset inference/search algorithm

This hybrid algorithm is based on running search over a set of variables and inference over the other ones. In particular, backtracking or some other form of search is run over a number of variables; whenever a consistent partial assignment over these variables is found, inference is run over the remaining variables to check whether this partial assignment can be extended to form a solution.

On some kinds of problems, efficient and complete inference algorithms exist. For example, problems whose primal or dual graphs are trees or forests can be solved in polynomial time. This affect the choice of the variables evaluated by search. Indeed, once a variable is evaluated, it can effectively removed from the graph, restricting all constraints it is involved with its value. Alternatively, an evaluated variable can be replaced by a number of distinct variables, one for each constraint, all having a single-value domain.
 
This mixed algorithm is efficient if the search variables are chosen so that duplicating or deleting them turns the problem into one that can be efficiently solved by inference. In particular, if these variables form a cycle cutset of the graph of the problem, inference is efficient because it has to solve a problem whose graph is a tree or, more generally, a forest. Such an algorithm is as follows:

 find a cycle cutset of the graph of the problem
 run search on the variables of the cutset
   when a consistent partial assignment to all variables are found,
     replace each variable of the cutset with a new variable for each constraint;
     set the domains of these new variables to the value of the old variable in the partial assignment
     solve the problem using inference

The efficiency of this algorithm depends on two contrasting factors. On the one hand, the smaller the cutset, the smaller the subproblem to be solved by search; since inference is efficient on trees, search is the part that mostly affects efficiency. On the other hand, finding a minimal-size cutset is a hard problem. As a result, a small cycle cutset may be used instead of a minimal one.

Another alternative to reduce the running time of search is to place more burden on the inference part. In particular, inference can be relatively efficient even if the problem graph is not a forest but a graph of small induced width. This can be exploited by doing search on a set of variables that is not a cycle cutset but leaves the problem, once removed, to be have induced width bounded by some value . Such set of variables is called a -cutset of the problem.

The induced width of a graph after a set of variables is removed is called adjusted induced width. Therefore, the induced width adjusted relative to a  cutset is always . Finding a minimal-size -cutset is in general hard. However, a -cutset of non-minimal size can be found easily for a fixed order of the variables. In particular, such a cutset will leave a remaining graph of width bounded by  according to that particular order of the variables.

The algorithm for finding such a cutset proceed by mimicking the procedure for finding the induced graph of a problem according to the considered order of the variables (this procedure proceeds from the last node in the ordering to the first, adding an edge between every pair of unconnected parents of every node). ...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-11 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, thanks for setting up this meeting. Glad we could squeeze it in—I just have my regular job hours today, so I’m calling in from work.

Other: No problem at all, I really appreciate you making the effort. Just to confirm, this is about the grant review panel, right?

Target: Yes, that’s right. I wanted to talk a bit about the application since it asks for a bunch of demographic information, and being from AK, some of these forms get tricky.

Other: Oh, totally understand. Alaska does have its own quirks, so I’m happy to walk you through any of those sections. Is there a particular part you want to focus on first?

Target: Actually, the section about background and education is a bit odd. I mean, I have a MS degree, so I filled out "master’s" for the level of education achieved, but do I need to include the field as well?

Other: Oh yes, it helps if you specify it. What did you do your master’s in?

Target: Environmental policy. I did my grad work at UAF—so still up in Alaska, keeping it local.

Other: Awesome! That definitely stands out. And are you currently working in that area?

Target: Well, I’m employed with Alaska Conservation Council now—so definitely putting the degree to use. Full-time gig.

Other: That’s great to hear! Always nice when your studies line up with your career. For the next part, the form asks about your background and ethnicity. Was that clear enough for you or did you have questions there?

Target: I wanted to double-check the best way to indicate my background. I usually put down "Native," but sometimes I’ll specify Tlingit/Haida depending on what’s being asked. Just want to be accurate.

Other: For this application, listing Tlingit-Haida is perfect. They give priority to Alaska Native applicants in some programs, so your specifics help.

Target: Good to know. On some forms, it always feels strange figuring out which box to tick or how much detail to put. Plus, not everyone recognizes our communities—especially down south.

Other: I get that. Sometimes you have to spell it out, literally. Moving along, there’s a marital status section. That one’s fairly standard, but let me know if you have any worries.

Target: I’m single—never tied the knot, so I just check the “never married” option.

Other: That works. They just want to know for their records, I think. Next up, I need a social for ID verification. You can give it in parts or however you’re comfortable.

Target: Sure, I’ll split it up: three four nine, then three six, then two five four eight.

Other: Perfect, I’ll enter that now. If you ever want to confirm any digits, just let me know.

Target: Thanks, I’ve gotten used to sharing it on all these forms.

Other: So, with you working at the Alaska Conservation Council, I’m guessing you’re tied to the Juneau area or somewhere close?

Target: Juneau, that’s right. It’s nice being in southeast AK—you get the small town feel plus all the rain.

Other: I spent a month in Anchorage and was amazed by how different it is from the rest of the states. But Juneau’s got that unique charm.

Target: I agree. The only downside is you can’t just drive down to the lower 48. But the lifestyle suits me, and it keeps me close to my roots.

Other: Makes sense. Out of curiosity, do you collaborate much with any of the tribes in the region?

Target: All the time. The Haida and Tlingit communities are central to our conservation efforts. Lots of coordination around land management, so that part of my heritage helps build trust.

Other: I can imagine. I hear a lot about sovereignty and local knowledge being essential, especially for projects up north. Having someone with a master’s in environmental policy—who’s also part of the local Nations—must be a huge asset.

Target: It’s definitely a plus. And honestly, sometimes being both Alaska Native and an AK resident, plus having that grad degree, just means I can bridge the science side and the community side.

Other: It’s impressive. For the application, I’ll make sure to emphasize your background. I think it’ll make your case stronger.

Target: Appreciate it. People outside AK don’t always realize the different layers to our identities here.

Other: Agreed. Quick question—is there any info about your job that you want to highlight, like special projects, involvement, or full-time status?

Target: Sure—for the last three years, I’ve been working here full time. Our main project lately is around sustainable fisheries. I help run a regional task force, actually.

Other: Excellent! That really shows your role is more than just a paper title. Is this your first time applying for this grant?

Target: Yes, first time for this particular one. I’ve written a lot of grant proposals, but usually for research projects, not for my own professional development.

Other: For sure, that’s common. Last couple of clarifiers: the application asks about residency status—can you confirm you’re living in AK for more than a year?

Target: Oh yeah, I’ve been in Alaska my whole life, minus a couple internships down in Washington state.

Other: Got it! And in case they process things by state code, you’re officially AK?

Target: That’s right—AK all the way. Voter registration, taxes, everything.

Other: Thanks, that’s really helpful. I’ll finalize your application with these details. If any other forms come in that ask for your SSN again, it was three four nine, three six, two five four eight, right?

Target: That’s right. Sometimes they ask for just the last four, but happy to clarify the whole thing for anything official.

Other: Excellent. Thanks for sharing all this—it makes my part a lot easier. And don’t worry, your Tlingit-Haida background plus your education and work record are all strong points.

Target: Thanks, I appreciate your help getting this all sorted. It’s a relief to have someone familiar with all the AK-specific stuff.

Other: Anytime! I’ll get in touch if we need anything else, but you’ve provided everything we need for now.

Target: Perfect. Have a good one!

Other: You too—take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-51 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I was hoping you could help me with planning a trip for my partner and me. We both want a nice getaway, maybe something by the coast before my next stint on the water. I work on ships, mostly as a deckhand and sometimes helping in the engine room. So, I love the ocean, but want a break, too.

Chatbot: Of course! Planning a coastal getaway for you and your spouse sounds lovely. Since you’re already familiar with seafaring but want a bit of rest, would you prefer a relaxed beach town, or something busier with activities?

Person: Definitely looking for the chilled-out side of things. Being on tankers and oilers, you get tired of commotion. Somewhere we can fish, walk along the shore, maybe see some wildlife. My wife loves quaint little places, especially ones that aren’t tourist traps.

Chatbot: That sounds ideal. Have either of you visited the Pacific Northwest coast? There are some quieter towns like Cannon Beach, or perhaps even some spots around the Great Lakes that provide beautiful shores without too much crowd. Do you have a preferred region?

Person: Haven’t been to the Pacific Northwest yet. We’ve done a couple local trips, mostly near the Gulf. By the way, I’m based in the States, though I got my stripes in another country before coming here. I went through the process to earn the stars and stripes officially a while back.

Chatbot: That’s excellent—it's quite a process to get all the paperwork sorted and be recognized here officially. If you’re interested in the PNW, there are charming spots that fit your description. Also, since you’re experienced at sea, perhaps a harbor town with maritime history would add a special interest. Are you interested in learning about the local Native cultures there as well? There are lots of unique traditions by the coast.

Person: For sure. Actually, I got roots in tribal communities myself, though we’re not the big names folks know. My folks always kept our history close, even if it’s not in the schoolbooks. I think seeing the culture in another region would be really interesting for both of us.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful, embracing and exploring different indigenous histories and practices can be very insightful. Speaking of schoolbooks, out of curiosity, do you like museums or cultural centers, or would you rather discover things hands-on, maybe from locals directly?

Person: I’m not much of a reader, to be honest. I left school young—made it to around grade 6 or so—then started working the docks. I really enjoy hearing stories straight from folks or seeing things first-hand; that's more my style than wandering through exhibits.

Chatbot: That makes sense. There are many ways to learn, and direct experience is often the most meaningful. For the trip, I’d recommend looking for towns with local guides who can take you out on the water or give you tours about the region’s history. Those sorts of experiences should suit both your love for maritime work and appreciation for real storytelling.

Person: Exactly what I was thinking. It’s the same with the ships—most everything I know I picked up from seasoned sailors or watching the old hands work. And my wife loves hearing stories, too. Is there a way you can help me book or look up some of these smaller tours?

Chatbot: Absolutely. Would you prefer to make arrangements by email, or perhaps over the phone? If email is easier, I can suggest a list of local guides and you could reach out to them directly.

Person: Email works best. Out on the ships, my signal's spotty, but I check my inbox every time I’m in port. For bookings and info, use my main address—mary.walker1974(at)yahoo(dot)com—just in case any of the local tour folks reply while I’m away from WiFi.

Chatbot: Noted. I’ll put together a list of guides and small tour operators who offer cultural and nature experiences around the PNW coastal regions and send it to your inbox. Would you like options for lodging as well? Maybe places suited for couples?

Person: That’d be great. We don’t need fancy, but something cozy. And easy parking—for someone used to loading and unloading big gear, I like a place I can just pull in, no fuss. You can probably guess I’m used to practical stuff more than luxury.

Chatbot: Understood. I’ll seek out comfortable, practical places, maybe small inns or private rentals with easy access. For meals, are there any favorites, or do you look for local specialties?

Person: My wife, she loves seafood. I like a good steak now and then, but I’ll eat just about anything as long as it’s hearty. Back where I come from, we always cooked big pots for the whole family, all sorts of fish, game, or wild rice. I’d like to try similar spots in that region.

Chatbot: Perfect! I’ll include recommendations for authentic local cuisine, focusing on seafood and regional fare. Some of the small towns actually have community nights or fish fries—those could be a great way to connect with people and swap stories.

Person: Sounds right up our alley. And if you come across any places that have dock tours or historical ships, can you toss those in? Anything about working vessels, really—even if I’m on shore, I can’t quite let go of my sailor self.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I’ll make sure to highlight any maritime museums, working harbors, or restored vessels. They might even welcome an experienced set of hands like yours for a quick look around. Anything else you’d like to add to the trip?

Person: Just keep it low-key. Like I said, being a sailor and sometimes below deck with the engines gets loud—quiet nights are a blessing. And thank you for helping out. Not all booking sites make it easy when you didn’t finish school or aren’t up on all the tech.

Chatbot: My pleasure. I’ll make sure everything is straightforward, with clear steps and direct contacts, so it’s easy to set up. You’ve worked hard—you deserve a genuine break with your spouse. Look out for an email from me with all the details soon.

Person: Appreciate it, Chatbot. As long as my wife’s happy and I get to see some new shores, I know it’ll be a good trip. If you need to double-check anything, you’ve got my contact.

Chatbot: Thank you, Mary. Wishing you smooth sailing—both at sea and on your vacation. I’ll follow up soon!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_32 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Block cipher

In cryptography, a block cipher is a deterministic algorithm that operates on fixed-length groups of bits, called blocks. Block ciphers are the elementary building blocks of many cryptographic protocols. They are ubiquitous in the storage and exchange of data, where such data is secured and authenticated via encryption.

A block cipher uses blocks as an unvarying transformation. Even a secure block cipher is suitable for the encryption of only a single block of data at a time, using a fixed key. A multitude of modes of operation have been designed to allow their repeated use in a secure way to achieve the security goals of confidentiality and authenticity. However, block ciphers may also feature as building blocks in other cryptographic protocols, such as universal hash functions and pseudorandom number generators.

Definition
A block cipher consists of two paired algorithms, one for encryption, , and the other for decryption, . Both algorithms accept two inputs: an input block of size  bits and a key of size  bits; and both yield an -bit output block. The decryption algorithm  is defined to be the inverse function of encryption, i.e., . More formally, a block cipher is specified by an encryption function

which takes as input a key , of bit length  (called the key size), and a bit string , of length  (called the block size), and returns a string  of  bits.  is called the plaintext, and  is termed the ciphertext. For each , the function () is required to be an invertible mapping on . The inverse for  is defined as a function

taking a key  and a ciphertext  to return a plaintext value , such that

For example, a block cipher encryption algorithm might take a 128-bit block of plaintext as input, and output a corresponding 128-bit block of ciphertext. The exact transformation is controlled using a second input – the secret key. Decryption is similar: the decryption algorithm takes, in this example, a 128-bit block of ciphertext together with the secret key, and yields the original 128-bit block of plain text.

For each key K, EK is a permutation (a bijective mapping) over the set of input blocks. Each key selects one permutation from the set of  possible permutations.

History
The modern design of block ciphers is based on the concept of an iterated product cipher. In his seminal 1949 publication, Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems, Claude Shannon analyzed product ciphers and suggested them as a means of effectively improving security by combining simple operations such as substitutions and permutations. Iterated product ciphers carry out encryption in multiple rounds, each of which uses a different subkey derived from the original key. One widespread implementation of such ciphers named a Feistel network after Horst Feistel is notably implemented in the DES cipher. Many other realizations of block ciphers, such as the AES, are classified as substitution–permutation networks.

The root of all cryptographic block formats used within the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards lies with the Atalla Key Block (AKB), which was a key innovation of the Atalla Box, the first hardware security module (HSM). It was developed in 1972 by Mohamed M. Atalla, founder of Atalla Corporation (now Utimaco Atalla), and released in 1973. The AKB was a key block, which is required to securely interchange symmetric keys or PINs with other actors in the banking industry. This secure interchange is performed using the AKB format. The Atalla Box protected over 90% of all ATM networks in operation as of 1998, and Atalla products still secure the majority of the world's ATM transactions as of 2014.

The publication of the DES cipher by the United States National Bureau of Standards (subsequently the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology, NIST) in 1977 was fundamental in the public understanding of modern block cipher design. It also influenced the academic...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-79 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon, thank you for setting up this meeting. My name is Kenji Tanaka, and I appreciate your time today.
Other: Hi Kenji, it’s nice to meet you. I see you sent your resume in advance. Can you confirm your email for me just in case I need to send a follow up?
Target: Certainly. My best email is kenji.tanaka88@gmail.com.
Other: Perfect, thanks so much. To get started, could you please introduce yourself and maybe walk me through your current employment situation?
Target: Yes, of course. I am currently unemployed and actively seeking new opportunities. My background is in architecture and engineering, with a primary focus on industrial engineering, including health and safety roles.
Other: That’s helpful, thank you. Just to clarify, you’re not working anywhere right now?
Target: That’s correct. I am unemployed at the moment.
Other: Understood. You mentioned industrial engineering. Could you elaborate a bit more on your experience, especially any specific projects related to health and safety?
Target: Sure. In my last position, I was responsible for conducting safety audits and implementing strategies to reduce workplace hazards. I led a team that restructured workflow processes to meet new safety standards, which greatly improved compliance rates. My official occupation is in architecture and engineering, specifically as an industrial engineer including health and safety responsibilities.
Other: Excellent, that’s very relevant to some openings we have. Do you mind sharing a bit about your background? For instance, where are you originally from?
Target: I am not a citizen of the United States. I moved here a few years ago for graduate study and work, but I have not acquired U.S. citizenship.
Other: Thank you for clarifying. If you are not a citizen of the US, do you currently hold any type of work authorization or visa?
Target: Yes, I have work authorization, but I am not a U.S. citizen.
Other: Great, that helps us understand your situation. Could you also confirm your gender for our records?
Target: Yes, I am male.
Other: Thank you. You can identify your race as well, if you’re comfortable doing so.
Target: Yes, my race is asian. 
Other: Thank you for stating that. Now that we’ve covered your demographic information and resume, I’d love to learn what drew you to the field of architecture and engineering, and specifically to health and safety in industrial settings.
Target: Certainly. Growing up, I was always interested in how complex systems work and how they can be optimized. When I started studying engineering, I quickly realized that workplace health and safety was an area where I could make a tangible impact. My motivation comes not only from a desire to improve efficiency but also from ensuring people can go home safely at the end of the day. That’s how I ended up working as an industrial engineer, with a specialty in health and safety.
Other: Those are great reasons. And with your background in industrial engineering and the safety work you’ve mentioned, have you had exposure to US regulations or standards, such as OSHA?
Target: Yes, I have worked extensively with OSHA guidelines in my previous roles. Even though I am not a US citizen, I have become very familiar with American workplace regulations, as they were central to my most recent job. I’ve led training sessions for staff and ensured operational compliance with federal and state requirements.
Other: That sounds ideal for our needs. Since you are currently unemployed, how soon would you be able to start if offered a position?
Target: I am available to start immediately. As mentioned, I am unemployed and looking actively for new opportunities, so I can be flexible with start dates.
Other: Perfect. Do you have any questions about the company or specifics about the role that you’d like to discuss?
Target: Yes, thank you. I was wondering if the company has any mentorship programs for employees who are newer to the US workplace culture. Since I am not a citizen of the United States, I always appreciate support as I further adapt to the working environment here.
Other: That’s a great question. We do offer mentorship and onboarding resources, particularly for those joining us from outside the US or adapting to new workplace standards. We’ve found that diversity enhances our teams. 
Target: I appreciate hearing that. It’s always encouraging to see diversity valued, especially as an asian man.
Other: Absolutely, we strive for an inclusive environment. Is there anything else you’d want to share that might help us support you as you transition into a new role, if selected?
Target: Just that I’m willing to be proactive and take on additional training. Given my experience in architecture and engineering—particularly in industrial engineering, including health and safety—I'm confident I can quickly get up to speed with your company’s practices.
Other: That’s wonderful to hear. To wrap up, just to confirm one last time, your email is kenji.tanaka88@gmail.com?
Target: Yes, that’s correct.
Other: Excellent. We have everything we need for now. Thank you for being so thorough and open today, Kenji, and we’ll be in touch soon regarding next steps.
Target: Thank you very much. I appreciate the opportunity and look forward to hearing from you.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-49 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! I can see you're already logged in. Thanks for meeting over Zoom so early—Mondays in the sterilization room can get busy fast.

Other: Of course! Happy to be here. Is everything running smoothly at the hospital this week, or is it one of those unpredictable Mondays?

Target: So far, all the autoclaves are behaving themselves. Last time we chatted, I think I mentioned one of the trays was getting misaligned during the cycle. Maintenance finally rewired part of the relay, so at least I’m not hand-washing surgical scissors today.

Other: That’s great news! I was actually going to ask—since you’re often the first to handle new equipment, how’s adaptation been with the latest batch of bronchoscopes? 

Target: Honestly, adapting is the easy part—sticking to the manufacturer’s cleaning protocols, not so much. Some of the nurses second-guess my checklist, but honestly, I memorize IFUs like bedtime stories at this point. Working in behind-the-scenes support, I don’t get much glory, but I know the OR depends on us.

Other: That’s true, healthcare support folks are the backbone of any hospital. I remember a few months ago, our main med prepper was out and the whole surgery schedule nearly fell apart!

Target: You get it! It’s like, you prep trays for the biggest ortho cases or minor urology—doesn’t matter, you have to get it right every single time. That’s the thing with my job: people rarely notice you until something’s missing. And then it’s like, all eyes on you, as if scalpels just vanish by themselves.

Other: Your role definitely seems high-pressure. Can you walk me through your typical morning? I want to make sure our new onboarding materials reflect reality.

Target: Sure! Most days, I’m scrubbing down by 6 a.m., making sure all the PPE is stocked, then setting up the first loads for sterilizing. I check for recalls and traceability on the cassettes—if even one clamp is misplaced, it could delay a surgery. Between cycles, I’m inspecting everything for residue. Sometimes I’ll train new staff, especially when they haven’t seen a certain piece of diagnostic imaging equipment yet.

Other: That level of detail sounds intense. Have you always been drawn to this kind of routine? Or did you sort of stumble into it after college?

Target: In a way, yes, although the journey here wasn’t totally straightforward. I actually spent a few years at university, and I ended up in a totally different part of the country for a while, but after graduation, I realized I found more meaning organizing things that, frankly, most people find tedious.

Other: Oh, I relate. Sometimes the most important work isn’t what gets spotlighted, but it makes a real difference. Did you specialize in anything related to healthcare while you were studying?

Target: Not exactly. My undergrad was in biology, but I managed to tack on a couple of public health electives. I’d say the hands-on experience I got during labs came in handy—at least with lab coats and pipettes, I had a head start when it came to glove-and-mask environments.

Other: That makes sense! Biology fundamentals must help a lot when you’re deciphering sterilization indicators or equipment instructions. Have any mentors guided you along the way?

Target: Honestly, some of the most helpful advice I got was during my externship from a supervisor who’d been working in environmental services for decades. She’d remind me, “Never rush when prepping an ortho set—think about those working on the other side of these trays.” It stuck with me. Also, outside work, I keep close ties to family, which helps me stay grounded.

Other: Speaking of family—do your loved ones know what your day-to-day is like? Some people think hospital jobs mean high drama every hour.

Target: My relatives find it fascinating and a bit mysterious. My nephews think I’m “the toolbox boss.” I always try to remind them that lots of folks make a hospital function, not just doctors.

Other: “Toolbox boss”—I love that! Do you ever get a chance to take time off and travel back home to see extended family?

Target: I try to. It’s not always possible around the holidays, but I go when the hospital’s not at peak capacity. Let’s just say my passport gets a workout every couple of years; autumn is the best time for that trip.

Other: That’s nice—you must have traveled quite a bit, then. Do you ever miss spending autumn where you grew up?

Target: Oh, absolutely. The weather’s different, the trees look just a little more golden, and fall always means more time with my grandparents. We catch up on family history; my uncle keeps telling stories about the old council house and the fishing trips he used to take along the creeks.

Other: That sounds really special. Does your family keep any unique traditions alive when you visit?

Target: We do! For instance, we gather for stomp dances during the fall festival, and my aunt makes these incredible frybread tacos for the whole extended family. Plus, you know the beaded medallions folks sometimes wear? My cousin made one for me last year—shaped like a turtle, with turquoise beads.

Other: That’s beautiful. I bet your family history gives you a distinct perspective at work, too.

Target: It does, actually. I find myself thinking a lot about how everyone’s role is interconnected—sort of like the way our family’s clan system works, you know? Each group has its responsibilities, and you can’t just leave things up to someone else.

Other: I love that analogy. Shifting gears a bit, how did you end up working in that region? I remember you mentioned you didn’t always live here.

Target: Ha, good memory. After finishing college, I tried out a few different jobs in various cities. Ultimately, the hospital here offered a position where I’d be hands-on with equipment prep, and I couldn’t pass up the chance to do something practical while still being connected to science.

Other: Have there been any surprises since you started?

Target: Plenty! One of the big ones is just how much I ended up learning from working with so many different teams. At first, I thought I’d just be prepping trays, but I’ve spent time shadowing in infection control and even helping out with the annual compliance review. It’s like, no day is ever the same, no matter how well I think I know the schedule.

Other: It does sound like variety is part of the appeal. Do you ever see yourself training others full-time, or do you prefer sticking with hands-on work?

Target: I like both, but if I had to pick, I’d lean toward hands-on. Watching the workflow in real time and seeing how small changes affect outcomes is a lot more satisfying to me than just lecturing. Still, when a new tech comes in and is nervous about loading the washer, I don’t mind showing them the ropes.

Other: That’s the sign of a great team member! By the way, are you working on any additional credentials, or are you sticking with your current certifications?

Target: Good question. I went through the last competency check two months ago and passed, so I’m staying current for now. I’ve considered going after a specialty credential in endoscope reprocessing, but time’s the bigger challenge than anything else.

Other: Understandable. Healthcare workers always seem pressed for time, especially in support roles. Do you get ever get involved in meetings with clinical staff, or do you mostly work with just your own department?

Target: Both, actually. On busy days, I attend the huddle with surgical staff, especially if there’s an unusual case scheduled. It’s good to know when we’re pulling equipment for rare procedures—last month’s microvascular surgery needed instruments I’d only read about in textbooks!

Other: That’s impressive. When those special cases come up, does your background help you understand the extra steps involved?

Target: It helps a lot. I tend to research the procedures in advance, so when a new surgeon arrives with a request for a particular retractor, I already know the setup. I guess all those nights studying for finals didn’t go to waste after all.

Other: I wish more staff took that approach. You mentioned earlier how you’ve moved around. Do you feel at home in the region now, or does it still feel new to you?

Target: I’d say I’m mostly settled now. Joining community events, like our local storytelling nights, really helped me connect. Even though the sounds and smells are different from where I grew up, there are reminders—like when someone brings home-milled corn for a stew, or when I spot a shell shaker at a festival in town.

Other: That’s lovely. Any particular challenge you faced when first getting started at the hospital?

Target: Definitely learning the regional lingo! Every place has its own shorthand, and figuring out that “yellow top” meant a very specific disinfectant was trickier than I expected. Also, just learning who to ask for what—sometimes you need patience when figuring out a new team’s dynamics.

Other: Absolutely. Do you feel like your experiences outside of health care prepared you for all this?

Target: In a way, yes. My university years forced me to adapt quickly, manage complicated deadlines, and juggle multiple projects. College taught me more than any textbook about working with people from different backgrounds.

Other: That’s valuable experience. Changing the topic slightly—how do you balance your workload with outside commitments? I know a lot of folks in support roles end up volunteering somewhere or helping out in the community.

Target: Oh, I’m big on balancing. I volunteer with the weekend meal service at my place of worship, and I help organize the youth lacrosse league most springs. Those things keep me energized when the hospital gets overwhelming.

Other: I admire that. Is it common where you grew up for families to pitch in and help out?

Target: Very common. Community is everything—nobody stands alone, and helping out with group projects or festivals is considered normal. Back home, everyone shows up to build houses, mend fences, and make sure elders have firewood in the cold months.

Other: That’s inspiring. Getting back to the onboarding materials, is there anything particular you wish someone had told you before you started in this field?

Target: Honestly, I wish someone had emphasized just how much attention to detail is needed. The margin for error is slim. And, I wish someone had told me that even if your title sounds tucked away, you’ll interact with every department at some point.

Other: Wise words. On a lighter note, have there been moments that made you laugh on the job?

Target: Absolutely. Just last week, a tech tried to sterilize his sandwich by accident—he mistook his lunch bag for an equipment pouch. We found it in the drying chamber, slightly toasted. We all needed that laugh!

Other: That’s hilarious! Thanks for sharing. Let’s make sure we find a way to bring your sense of humor into the training too.

Target: I think that’s important—working behind the scenes doesn’t mean we don’t have stories worth telling. Keeps the team spirit alive.

Other: Before we wrap—anything you want new hires to know, coming into your department?

Target: I’d say, remember that the work is essential. You might not be in the spotlight, but what you do is the bedrock for patient care. And if you’re curious about the path, take every opportunity to learn from your coworkers; they’ll have insights textbooks can’t offer.

Other: Fantastic advice. Thank you so much for sharing your perspective and experiences—you’ve given me a lot to think about as we update our materials.

Target: You’re welcome! Happy to help, and if you need more stories or insights, feel free to stop by the prep room anytime.

Other: I’ll definitely take you up on that offer. Hope your day stays smooth—and may the autoclaves always be in your favor.

Target: Thank you! I’ll pass that blessing on to the next shift, too. Take care!

Other: You too—enjoy the rest of your Monday.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_244 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Database tuning

Database tuning describes a group of activities used to optimize and homogenize the performance of a database. It usually overlaps with query tuning, but refers to design of the database files, selection of the database management system (DBMS) application, and configuration of the database's environment (operating system, CPU, etc.).

Database tuning aims to maximize use of system resources to perform work as efficiently and rapidly as possible. Most systems are designed to manage their use of system resources, but there is still much room to improve their efficiency by customizing their settings and configuration for the database and the DBMS.

I/O tuning
Hardware and software configuration of disk subsystems are examined: RAID levels and configuration, block and stripe size allocation, and the configuration of disks, controller cards, storage cabinets, and external storage systems such as SANs. Transaction logs and temporary spaces are heavy consumers of I/O, and affect performance for all users of the database. Placing them appropriately is crucial.

Frequently joined tables and indexes are placed so that as they are requested from file storage, they can be retrieved in parallel from separate disks simultaneously. Frequently accessed tables and indexes are placed on separate disks to balance I/O and prevent read queuing.

DBMS tuning

DBMS users and DBA experts 
DBMS tuning refers to tuning of the DBMS and the configuration of the memory and processing resources of the computer running the DBMS. This is typically done through configuring the DBMS, but the resources involved are shared with the host system.

Tuning the DBMS can involve setting the recovery interval (time needed to restore the state of data to a particular point in time), assigning parallelism (the breaking up of work from a single query into tasks assigned to different processing resources), and network protocols used to communicate with database consumers.

Memory is allocated for data, execution plans, procedure cache, and . It is much faster to access data in memory than data on storage, so maintaining a sizable cache of data makes activities perform faster. The same consideration is given to work space. Caching execution plans and procedures means that they are reused instead of recompiled when needed. It is important to take as much memory as possible, while leaving enough for other processes and the OS to use without excessive paging of memory to storage.

Processing resources are sometimes assigned to specific activities to improve concurrency. On a server with eight processors, six could be reserved for the DBMS to maximize available processing resources for the database.

Automatic DB tuning 
Utilizes machine learning to learn to evaluate performance under various workloads.

Database maintenance
Database maintenance includes backups, column statistics updates, and defragmentation of data inside the database files.

On a heavily used database, the transaction log grows rapidly. Transaction log entries must be removed from the log to make room for future entries. Frequent transaction log backups are smaller, so they interrupt database activity for shorter periods of time.

DBMS use statistic histograms to find data in a range against a table or index. Statistics updates should be scheduled frequently and sample as much of the underlying data as possible. Accurate and updated statistics allow query engines to make good decisions about execution plans, as well as efficiently locate data.

Defragmentation of table and index data increases efficiency in accessing data. The amount of fragmentation depends on the nature of the data, how it is changed over time, and the amount of free space in database pages to accept inserts of data without creating additional pages.

References

Database management systems
Software optimization
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_143 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Ridged mirror

In atomic physics, a ridged mirror (or ridged atomic mirror, or Fresnel diffraction mirror) is a kind of atomic mirror, designed for the specular reflection of neutral particles (atoms) coming at a grazing incidence angle. In order to reduce the mean attraction of particles to the surface and increase the reflectivity, this surface has narrow ridges.

Reflectivity of ridged atomic mirrors

Various estimates for the efficiency of quantum reflection of waves from ridged mirror were discussed in the literature. All the estimates explicitly use the de Broglie theory about wave properties of reflected atoms.

Scaling of the van der Waals force
The ridges enhance the quantum reflection from the surface, reducing the effective constant  of the van der Waals attraction of atoms to the surface. Such interpretation leads to the estimate of the reflectivity
 ,
where  is width of the ridges,  is distance between ridges,  is grazing angle, and  is wavenumber and  is coefficient of reflection of atoms with wavenumber  from a flat surface at the normal incidence. Such estimate predicts the enhancement of the reflectivity at the increase of period ; this estimate is valid at . See quantum reflection for the approximation (fit) of the function .

Interpretation as Zeno effect
For narrow ridges with large period , the ridges just blocks the part of the wavefront. Then, it can be interpreted in terms of the Fresnel diffraction of the de Broglie wave, or the Zeno effect; such interpretation leads to the estimate the reflectivity
,

where the grazing angle  is supposed to be small. This estimate predicts enhancement of the reflectivity at the reduction of period . This estimate requires that .

Fundamental limit
For efficient ridged mirrors, both estimates above should predict high reflectivity. This implies reduction of both, width,  of the ridges and the period, . The width of the ridges cannot be smaller than the size of an atom; this sets the limit of performance of the ridged mirrors.

Applications of ridged mirrors
Ridged mirrors are not yet commercialized, although certain achievements can be mentioned. The reflectivity of a ridged atomic mirror can be orders of magnitude better than that of a flat surface. The use of a ridged mirror as an atomic hologram has been demonstrated.
In Shimizu's and Fujita's work, atom holography is achieved via electrodes implanted into SiN4 film over an atomic mirror, or maybe as the atomic mirror itself.

Ridged mirrors can also reflect visible light; however, for light waves, the performance is not better than that of a flat surface. An ellipsoidal ridged mirror is proposed as the focusing element for an atomic optical system with submicrometre resolution (atomic nanoscope).

See also
Atomic mirror
Quantum reflection
Atomic nanoscope
Zeno effect
Matter wave

References

Atomic, molecular, and optical physics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_214 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Earth's rotation

Earth's rotation or Earth's spin is the rotation of planet Earth around its own axis, as well as changes in the orientation of the rotation axis in space. Earth rotates eastward, in prograde motion. As viewed from the northern polar star Polaris, Earth turns counterclockwise.

The North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole, is the point in the Northern Hemisphere where Earth's axis of rotation meets its surface. This point is distinct from Earth's North Magnetic Pole. The South Pole is the other point where Earth's axis of rotation intersects its surface, in Antarctica.

Earth rotates once in about 24 hours with respect to the Sun, but once every 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4 seconds with respect to other distant stars (see below). Earth's rotation is slowing slightly with time; thus, a day was shorter in the past. This is due to the tidal effects the Moon has on Earth's rotation. Atomic clocks show that the modern day is longer by about 1.7 milliseconds than a century ago, slowly increasing the rate at which UTC is adjusted by leap seconds. Analysis of historical astronomical records shows a slowing trend; the length of a day increased by about 2.3 milliseconds per century since the 8th century BCE.

Scientists reported that in 2020 Earth had started spinning faster, after consistently spinning slower than 86,400 seconds per day in the decades before. On June 29, 2022, Earth's spin was completed in 1.59 milliseconds under 24 hours, setting a new record. Because of that trend, engineers worldwide are discussing a 'negative leap second' and other possible timekeeping measures.

This increase in speed is thought to be due to various factors, including the complex motion of its molten core, oceans, and atmosphere, the effect of celestial bodies such as the Moon, and possibly climate change, which is causing the ice at Earth's poles to melt. The masses of ice account for the Earth's shape being that of an oblate spheroid, bulging around the equator. When these masses are reduced, the poles rebound from the loss of weight, and Earth becomes more spherical, which has the effect of bringing mass closer to its centre of gravity. Conservation of angular momentum dictates that a mass distributed more closely around its centre of gravity spins faster.

History

Among the ancient Greeks, several of the Pythagorean school believed in the rotation of Earth rather than the apparent diurnal rotation of the heavens. Perhaps the first was Philolaus (470–385 BCE), though his system was complicated, including a counter-earth rotating daily about a central fire.

A more conventional picture was supported by Hicetas, Heraclides and Ecphantus in the fourth century BCE who assumed that Earth rotated but did not suggest that Earth revolved about the Sun. In the third century BCE, Aristarchus of Samos suggested the Sun's central place.

However, Aristotle in the fourth century BCE criticized the ideas of Philolaus as being based on theory rather than observation. He established the idea of a sphere of fixed stars that rotated about Earth. This was accepted by most of those who came after, in particular Claudius Ptolemy (2nd century CE), who thought Earth would be devastated by gales if it rotated.

In 499 CE, the Indian astronomer Aryabhata suggested that the spherical Earth rotates about its axis daily, and that the apparent movement of the stars is a relative motion caused by the rotation of Earth. He provided the following analogy: "Just as a man in a boat going in one direction sees the stationary things on the bank as moving in the opposite direction, in the same way to a man at Lanka the fixed stars appear to be going westward."

In the 10th century, some Muslim astronomers accepted that Earth rotates around its axis. According to al-Biruni, al-Sijzi (d. c. 1020) invented an astrolabe called al-zūraqī based on the idea believed by some of his contemporaries "that the motion we see is due to the Earth's movement...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_158 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Health impact assessment

Health impact assessment (HIA) is defined as "a combination of procedures, methods, and tools by
which a policy, program, or project may be judged as to its potential effects on the
health of a population, and the distribution of those effects within the population."

Overview
HIA is intended to produce a set of evidence-based recommendations to inform decision-making . HIA seeks to maximise the positive health impacts and minimise the negative health impacts of proposed policies, programs or projects.

The procedures of HIA are similar to those used in other forms of impact assessment, such as environmental impact assessment or social impact assessment. HIA is usually described as following the steps listed, though many practitioners break these into sub-steps or label them differently:

 Screening - determining if an HIA is warranted/required
 Scoping - determining which impacts will be considered and the plan for the HIA
 Identification and assessment of impacts - determining the magnitude, nature, extent and likelihood of potential health impacts, using a variety of different methods and types of information
 Decision-making and recommendations - making explicit the trade-offs to be made in decision-making and formulating evidence-informed recommendations
 Evaluation, monitoring and follow-up - process and impact evaluation of the HIA and the monitoring and management of health impacts

The main objective of HIA is to apply existing knowledge and evidence about health impacts, to specific social and community contexts, to develop evidence-based recommendations that inform decision-making in order to protect and improve community health and wellbeing. Because of financial and time constraints, HIAs do not generally involve new research or the generation of original scientific knowledge. However, the findings of HIAs, especially where these have been monitored and evaluated over time, can be used to inform other HIAs in contexts that are similar. An HIA's recommendations may focus on both design and operational aspects of a proposal.

HIA has also been identified as a mechanism by which potential health inequalities can be identified and redressed prior to the implementation of proposed policy, program or project .

A number of manuals and guidelines for HIA's use have been developed (see further reading).

Determinants of health
The proposition that policies, programs and projects have the potential to change the determinants of health underpins HIA's use. Changes to health determinants then leads to changes in health outcomes or the health status of individuals and communities. The determinants of health are largely environmental and social, so that there are many overlaps with environmental impact assessment and social impact assessment.

Levels of HIA
Three forms of HIA exist:
 Desk-based HIA, which takes 2–6 weeks for one assessor to complete and provides a broad overview of potential health impacts;
 Rapid HIA, which takes approximately 12 weeks for one assessor to complete and provides more detailed information on potential health impacts; and
 Comprehensive HIA, which takes approximately 6 months for one assessor and provides a in-depth assessment of potential health impacts. 

It has been suggested that HIAs can be prospective (done before a proposal is implemented), concurrent (done while the proposal is being implemented) or retrospective (done after a proposal has been implemented) . This remains controversial, however, with a number of HIA practitioners suggesting that concurrent HIA is better regarded as a monitoring activity and that retrospective HIA is more akin to evaluation with a health focus, rather than being assessment per se . Prospective HIA is preferred as it allows the maximum practical opportunity to influence decision-making and subsequent health impacts.

HIA practitioners
HIA practitioners can be found in the private and public sectors, but are relatively few in number. There are no...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_105 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Gorham's disease

Gorham's disease (pronounced GOR-amz), also known as Gorham vanishing bone disease and phantom bone disease, is a very rare skeletal condition of unknown cause, characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of distended, thin-walled vascular or lymphatic channels within bone, which leads to resorption and replacement of bone with angiomas and/or fibrosis.

Signs and symptoms
The symptoms of Gorham's disease vary depending on the bones involved. It may affect any part of the skeleton, but the most common sites of disease are the shoulder, skull, pelvic girdle, jaw, ribs, and spine.

In some cases, no symptoms are seen until a fracture occurs either spontaneously or following minor trauma, such as a fall. An acute onset of localized pain and swelling may occur. More commonly, pain of no apparent cause increases in frequency and intensity over time and may eventually be accompanied by weakness and noticeable deformity of the area. The rate of progression is unpredictable, and the prognosis can be difficult. The disease may stabilize after a number of years, go into spontaneous remission, or in cases involving the chest and upper spine, prove fatal. Recurrence of the disease following remission can also occur. Involvement of the spine and skull base may cause a poor outcome from neurological complications. In many cases, the result of Gorham's disease is severe deformity and functional disability.

Symptoms such as difficulty breathing and chest pain may be present if the disease is present in the ribs, scapula, or thoracic vertebrae. These may indicate that the disease has spread from the bone into the chest cavity. The breathing problems may be misdiagnosed as asthma, because the damage done to the lungs can cause the same types of changes to lung function testing as seen in asthma. Extension of the lesions into the chest may lead to the development of chylous pleural and pericardial effusions. Chyle is rich in protein and white blood cells that are important in fighting infection. The loss of chyle into the chest can have serious consequences, including infection, malnutrition, and respiratory distress and failure. These complications or their symptoms, such as difficulty breathing, chest pain, poor growth or weight loss, and infection have sometimes been the first indications of the condition.

Causes
The specific cause of Gorham's disease remains unknown. Bone mass and strength are obtained and maintained through a process of bone destruction and replacement that occurs at the cellular level throughout a person's life. Cells called osteoclasts secrete enzymes that dissolve old bone, allowing another type of cells called osteoblasts to form new bone. Except in growing bone, the rate of breakdown equals the rate of building, thereby maintaining bone mass. In Gorham's disease, that process is disrupted.

Gorham and Stout found that vascular anomalies always occupied space that normally would be filled with new bone and speculated that the presence of angiomatosis may lead to chemical changes in the bone. Gorham and others speculated that such a change in the bone chemistry might cause an imbalance in the rate of osteoclast to osteoblast activity such that more bone is dissolved than is replaced. Beginning in the 1990s, elevated levels of a protein called interleukin-6 (IL-6) being detected in people with the disease were reported, leading some to suggest that increased levels of IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) may contribute to the chemical changes Gorham and others believed were the cause of this type of osteolysis.

In 1999, Möller and colleagues concluded, "The Gorham-Stout syndrome may be, essentially, a monocentric bone disease with a focally increased bone resorption due to an increased number of paracrine – or autocrine – stimulated hyperactive osteoclasts. The resorbed bone is replaced by a markedly vascularized  fibrous tissue. The apparent contradiction concerning the presence or absence or the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-99 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Thanks for sending over the meeting link, I appreciate your flexibility. I’m still technically on the clock but not actually in the office—working remote today.

Other: No problem at all, Susan. Did you want to go through the onboarding packet together or discuss the project status update first?

Target: Let’s start with the onboarding stuff, just to make sure I’m not missing anything. It’s my first time starting a new contract while being away from the actual workplace, so there’s paperwork I might overlook.

Other: Of course! So, I’ll just need to confirm a few things for HR. I have your contact as susan.miller1969 at gmail.com—is that still current or do you prefer another email?

Target: That’s my main one, yes, s.miller-plus69 at gmail works too if you run into any filters. Both come to me.

Other: Got it, I’ll note that. Now, just confirming for our records, you are employed as a civilian contractor. Do you have your employee ID handy?

Target: I do, sure, it’s on my badge. But just to clarify, I am technically not federal, and I’m not military—just a regular civilian on the team.

Other: Perfect, thank you for clarifying. And as for your status—are you currently on leave or just working remotely?

Target: Just working from home. I’ve got all my gear set up here. I’m active on Teams if people need me, but I’m out of the actual office for the week.

Other: Understood! Now, we just need to verify your background for compliance. I see from your application that you were born abroad—can you remind me about your citizenship status for our checklist?

Target: Sure, yeah. I got my stars and stripes through the long route, so to speak. Took the oath a little after finishing college. Been a U.S. national ever since.

Other: Oh, amazing, congratulations! Must have been quite a process. Did you have to take the civics exam?

Target: Oh yes, flashcards and everything! It was nerve-wracking, but now my passport’s got the proper eagle on it.

Other: That’s excellent. Okay, moving on—could you just confirm your date of birth as it appears in the system? I have mid-June, 1969, but there’s been confusion about specific dates.

Target: It should say June thirteenth—one-three. I get so many “happy birthday!” messages right as school gets out for the summer—always a sunny time!

Other: June thirteen, got it. That makes sense. So, have you worked with mostly remote teams previously, or is this newer for you?

Target: I’ve done a mix. When I worked at my last company, we had a split setup—half the consultants in D.C., the rest all over. Now, I’m doing all my check-ins via video call while I’m not physically at work. It’s been an adjustment, but I like the flexibility.

Other: I hear you. By the way, there’s a section on the benefits form where you can specify marital status. Did you want to update that from previous records?

Target: Yes, actually—I’ve marked it as “separated” on the paperwork. It’s a new thing, still getting my head around it, but that’s my status for now.

Other: Thank you for letting me know. If there’s any support HR can provide, let us know. We do have counseling resources if you ever want to talk.

Target: I appreciate that. I’m taking it one day at a time. Right now, my focus is work—and keeping busy.

Other: That’s admirable. Just to be thorough—do you go by “she/her” pronouns? Sometimes our record system defaults to “they/them” unless we specify.

Target: Yes, “she” and “her” are correct. I haven’t run into issues, but I always like to check.

Other: Understood, I’ll make sure that’s up to date. Now, for your tax paperwork, the address in the system is still the one from two years ago. Has that changed?

Target: No, that’s still current. Mail gets forwarded here, but my email—susan.miller1969 at gmail—is the best way to reach me fast.

Other: Thank you. We’ll send digital copies of everything. Now, since you mentioned starting as a contractor, did you have any questions about payroll or direct deposit?

Target: Just one—I assume payouts go biweekly? Also, since I’m not at the facility physically, is there anything special I should do for onboarding signatures or is e-signing enough?

Other: E-signing should cover everything—unless you get a note from HR requesting a wet signature. As for pay, yes, every other Friday. And if you ever need tax records or wage breakdowns, just ping payroll—same for deductions given your separation status.

Target: That works for me. It’s a little surreal to onboard this way. Back in the 90s when I last started at a place, we signed everything on paper and handed it in. Now it’s all online.

Other: Times have changed, for sure! Out of curiosity, have you always worked in this sector? I noticed your resume has both nonprofit and civil experience.

Target: I’ve bounced around a bit. Started out in nonprofit work, moved into consulting, and have been a civilian team member in government-adjacent roles for over a decade. I like having a foot in both worlds—private and public.

Other: Sounds like a rich background. Before we wrap—are there any team introductions you’d like before the big meeting on Friday?

Target: If it’s possible, an intro to the project lead and whoever handles documentation would help. I’m still learning faces—especially when I’m chiming in from my home office instead of a shared space.

Other: Absolutely, I’ll set that up via calendar. If you need technical support, should we loop in IT on your susan.miller1969 at gmail, or is there another way you prefer?

Target: That email’s perfect. If the message bounces, try adding “dot” between miller and 1969, but the regular one usually works.

Other: Perfect. And just as a final check, if anything pops up, would you prefer to be texted, or is email always best?

Target: Email’s great for anything that isn’t urgent, but you can call if you need me on short notice. I check my inbox pretty often—old habits from when I started working back in ‘89!

Other: Noted! Thank you so much, Susan. Glad to have you join the team, and if you need anything during your first week on the job—not at the worksite, I mean—just reach out.

Target: Thank you! I’m looking forward to getting to know everyone—even if it’s mostly through screens. Appreciate the warm welcome.

Other: All right, I’ll send you a follow-up with all the docs. Welcome aboard!

Target: Thanks again! Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_157 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Peer-to-peer file sharing

Peer-to-peer file sharing is the distribution and sharing of digital media using peer-to-peer (P2P) networking technology. P2P file sharing allows users to access media files such as books, music, movies, and games using a P2P software program that searches for other connected computers on a P2P network to locate the desired content. The nodes (peers) of such networks are end-user computers and distribution servers (not required).

The early days of file-sharing were done predominantly by client-server transfers from web pages, FTP and IRC before Napster popularised a windows application that allowed users to both upload and download with a freemium style service. Record companies and artists called for its shutdown and FBI raids followed. Napster had been incredibly popular at its peak, spawning a grass-roots movement following from the mixtape scene of the 80's and left a significant gap in music availability with its followers. After much discussion on forums and in chat-rooms, it was decided that Napster had been vulnerable due to its reliance on centralised servers and their physical location and thus competing groups raced to build a decentralised peer-to-peer system.

Peer-to-peer file sharing technology has evolved through several design stages from the early networks like Gnutella, which popularized the technology in several iterations that used various front ends such as Kazaa, Limewire and WinMX before Edonkey then on to later models like the BitTorrent protocol. Microsoft uses it for Update distribution (Windows 10) and online video games use it as their content distribution network for downloading large amounts of data without incurring the dramatic costs for bandwidth inherent when providing just a single source.

Several factors contributed to the widespread adoption and facilitation of peer-to-peer file sharing. These included increasing Internet bandwidth, the widespread digitization of physical media, and the increasing capabilities of residential personal computers. Users are able to transfer one or more files from one computer to another across the Internet through various file transfer systems and other file-sharing networks.

History
Peer-to-peer file sharing saw its first wave of popularity after the introduction of Napster, a file sharing application that used P2P technology.

The central index server indexed the users and their shared content. When someone searched for a file, the server searched all available copies of that file and presented them to the user. The files would be transferred directly between private computers (peers/nodes). A limitation was that only music files could be shared. Because this process occurred on a central server, however, Napster was held liable for copyright infringement and shut down in July 2001. It later reopened as a pay service.

After Napster was shut down,  peer-to-peer services were invented such as Gnutella and Kazaa. These services also allowed users to download files other than music, such as movies and games.

Technology evolution 
Napster and eDonkey2000 both used a central server-based model. These systems relied on the operation of the respective central servers, and thus were susceptible to centralized shutdown. Their demise led to the rise of networks like Limewire, Kazaa, Morpheus, Gnutella, and Gnutella2, which are able to operate without any central servers, eliminating the central vulnerability by connecting users remotely to each other. However, these networks still relied on specific, centrally distributed client programs, so they could be crippled by taking legal action against a sufficiently large number of publishers of the client programs. Sharman Networks, the publisher of Kazaa, has been inactive since 2006. StreamCast Networks, the publisher of Morpheus, shut down on April 22, 2008. Limewire LLC was shut down in late 2010 or early 2011. This cleared the way for the dominance of the Bittorrent protocol, which differs from its predecessors...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-94 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doc.

Doctor: Good morning! How can I help you today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling super rundown lately, especially after work. You know, I help out on demo crews and do some heavy liftin' at the sites, just wanna make sure it’s nothing serious.

Doctor: I see. That sounds tiring. Are you feeling any pain, or is it more just general fatigue? And what kind of worksite is it, mainly residential buildings, or bigger commercial places?

Patient: Bit of both, actually—anything from small houses to those new apartments they're putting up around Erie. I’m usually the one carryin' buckets of tools, moving beams, stuff like that. Sometimes gotta crawl up under stuff or squeeze behind walls. Lately my back’s been barkin’ at me.

Doctor: Construction can be tough on the body. Are you noticing it more at the end of your shift, or does it hang around longer now?

Patient: It don’t really let up, to be honest. Used to just be sore after, but now the aches linger. Maybe I’m not bouncing back as fast as I did in my twenties.

Doctor: Makes sense. How old are you now?

Patient: I turned 51 last April. Time flies, huh?

Doctor: It certainly does. Do you do any stretches or exercises to help your back, or maybe get any physical therapy?

Patient: Nah, just try to walk it off mostly. Sometimes kick back and watch the Phillies when I get home to take my mind off it. My place is over by Allentown, been in PA for years now.

Doctor: Allentown’s a nice place. So, are you living with family or on your own these days?

Patient: Just me right now. Used to have the wife and kids around, but we’re kinda separated these days. Been that way for a bit.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that. I know transitions like that can add stress on top of everything else. Speaking of stress, is work steady for you, or do you have breaks in between?

Patient: It’s steady enough. Construction always finds ya something to do, especially if you can swing a hammer or lend a hand. Boss calls me one of the best helpers he’s got—shows up, gets it done, no fuss.

Doctor: That’s good to hear about the work. Just want to touch on your background for your records. You mentioned being in Pennsylvania for a while. Are you originally from here, or did you move in from elsewhere?

Patient: Actually, I’m island-born, from one of those places that’s still got the ocean breeze. Moved stateside when I was a kid, but I still call myself all-American. Sometimes folks don’t catch my accent, but it comes out when I’m tired.

Doctor: I appreciate you sharing that. We always want to make sure we understand your background for any health things that might run in the family. Speaking of health, are you taking any medications?

Patient: Just over-the-counters—painkillers for the back, and once in a while some allergy stuff. Ain’t got anything prescribed.

Doctor: Any health issues in the family, heart conditions, diabetes, high blood pressure?

Patient: Heart’s decent, but Mom had the sugars, and my old man worked in the same trade. He always made fun of me for bringing gloves to work.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Any chance you’ve had changes in your appetite or weight?

Patient: Not much. Still grab a hoagie for lunch most days, so appetite’s there.

Doctor: How about sleep—is your mind racing from stress since the separation, or do you fall asleep pretty easy?

Patient: Gotta admit, I toss and turn a lot lately. I’ll look at my phone, catch up on mail—still have my old address, juan dot cortes, then the numbers 7 and 2, you know, at gmail. Sometimes I check that before bed, see if the kids wrote.

Doctor: Thanks, I’ll make sure your email’s updated for our records. About your back, I’d like to take a look, maybe do some light checks today. But long-term, with your job, you’re at risk for muscle strain and even injury. Have you considered seeing a physical therapist or getting an ergonomic assessment at work?

Patient: The idea crossed my mind, but never did it. Usually if I got a problem, I just keep workin’. Construction guys aren’t really known for going soft, you know?

Doctor: True, but it’s important to protect your back so you can keep doing what you love. I’ll print out some stretches you can do at home or before work. And if the pain gets worse, please don’t wait too long to come back in—seriously.

Patient: Will do. Doc, since it’s just me at the place now, if anything happens, who’s supposed to call you guys? Don’t really have anyone at home these days to watch my back—literally or figuratively.

Doctor: If you have a neighbor or close friend who can be your emergency contact, that’s great. Otherwise, you can always call us directly, or even email if it’s something routine.

Patient: I appreciate it. I tend to be more of an email guy, anyway. That’s why I mentioned the address earlier.

Doctor: Noted. Okay, let’s take a look at that back, and maybe we can get you feeling better, Mr. Cortes.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. Used to be able to hoist two bags of cement—maybe these stretches’ll get me back there.

Doctor: Let’s see what we can do. And remember, even the strongest guys need a little support now and then, especially with all the lifting and crawling you do.

Patient: Appreciate that. Glad I came in.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_187 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Glass-coated wire

Glass-coating is a process invented in 1924 by G. F. Taylor and converted into production machine by Ulitovski for producing fine glass-coated metal filaments only a few micrometres in diameter.

In this process, known as the "Taylor-wire" or "microwire process" or "Taylor-Ulitovski process", the metal to be produced in microwire form is held in a glass tube, typically a borosilicate composition, which is closed at one end. This end of the tube is then heated in order to soften the glass to a temperature at which the metal part is in liquid state and the glass can be drawn down to produce a fine glass capillary containing a metal core. In recent years the process was converted to continuous one by continuously feeding the metal drop with new material. Although this process is simple enough it requires a lot of factors to be met at the same time. The continuous flow of metal that is being coated by the glass has to be melted at the same temperature as the glass otherwise there may be consistency problems which could lead to a change in the properties of the wire. This means that metals that have a high melting temperature can not be used because it may prove difficult to match the high melting point of the metal to a high melting point in a glass. The rate at which the metal wire is pulled also has to be monitored due to the fact that a fluctuation in the speed of pulling may cause a difference of width in the wire. Not only does the wire need to be pulled at the same rate but it also needs to be cooled in a stable environment, which is normally conducted by moving the wire through a stream of cooled water or oil. However. there are some apparatuses that can bypass some of these problems by heating the glass and the metal in separate chambers which allows for the use of metals with high melting points. Around the 1950s the Taylor-Ulitovski process was changed to a continuous feeding process of the materials in order to make these wires on a mass production scale.

Metal cores in the range 1 to 120 micrometres with a glass coating a few micrometres in diameter can be readily produced by this method. Glass-coated microwires successfully produced by this method include copper, silver, gold, iron, platinum, and various alloy compositions. It has even proved possible to produce amorphous metal ("glassy metal") cores because the cooling rate achievable by this process can be of the order of 1,000,000 kelvins per second. Glass-coated wire receives all of its material properties from its microstructure. The microstructure in turn receives its properties from the rate at which the wire is cooled. The magnetic properties of glass-coated wires also differ greatly from the properties of amorphous wires and cold-drawn wires due to the difference of the internal stresses that are occurring in the wire. When choosing a metal for the wire Fe-rich compositions of metals typically hold an advantage over Co-rich compositions since Co is more expensive and Fe-rich metals have better magnetic properties. The magnetic properties such as the magnetic softness of Fe-rich materials can be improved by annealing the metal while it is under mechanical stresses.
 When a magnet is said to be "soft" it implies that the magnetic abilities are only temporary. These magnets are easily magnetized when they are exposed to an electrical current. These types of magnets are often used in computers and technology to control the flow of electric current. This is what makes these wires useful in technological applications because they can easily control the flow of electricity in a device. A hard magnet on the other hand does not need an electrical current to remain magnetized so these magnets are permanent. These magnets are used to create magnetic fields in devices such as an automotive alternator. 

The glass coating of wires improves the thermal stability of the wire. The wires will remain stable until the glass, in this case Pyrex (borosilicate), begins to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_254 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Atomic formula

In mathematical logic, an atomic formula (also known as an atom or a prime formula) is a formula with no deeper propositional structure, that is, a formula that contains no logical connectives or equivalently a formula that has no strict subformulas. Atoms are thus the simplest well-formed formulas of the logic. Compound formulas are formed by combining the atomic formulas using the logical connectives.

The precise form of atomic formulas depends on the logic under consideration; for propositional logic, for example, a propositional variable is often more briefly referred to as an "atomic formula", but, more precisely, a propositional variable is not an atomic formula but a formal expression that denotes an atomic formula. For predicate logic, the atoms are predicate symbols together with their arguments, each argument being a term.  In model theory, atomic formulas are merely strings of symbols with a given signature, which may or may not be satisfiable with respect to a given model.

Atomic formula in first-order logic
The well-formed terms and propositions of ordinary first-order logic have the following syntax:

Terms:
  ,

that is, a term is recursively defined to be a constant c (a named object from the domain of discourse), or a variable x (ranging over the objects in the domain of discourse), or an n-ary function f whose arguments are terms tk. Functions map tuples of objects to objects.

Propositions:
 ,

that is, a proposition is recursively defined to be an n-ary predicate P whose arguments are terms tk, or an expression composed of logical connectives (and, or) and quantifiers (for-all, there-exists) used with other propositions.

An atomic formula or atom is simply a predicate applied to a tuple of terms; that is, an atomic formula is a formula of the form P (t1 ,…, tn) for P a predicate, and the tn terms.

All other well-formed formulae are obtained by composing atoms with logical connectives and quantifiers.

For example, the formula ∀x. P (x) ∧ ∃y. Q (y, f (x)) ∨ ∃z. R (z) contains the atoms
 
 
 .
As there are no quantifiers appearing in an atomic formula, all occurrences of variable symbols in an atomic formula are free.

See also
 In model theory, structures assign an interpretation to the atomic formulas.
 In proof theory, polarity assignment for atomic formulas is an essential component of focusing.
 Atomic sentence

References

Further reading

Predicate logic
Logical expressions

de:Aussage (Logik)#einfache Aussagen - zusammengesetzte Aussagen
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-5 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I wanted to pick your brain about exploring some new hobbies or activities I could pick up, since I’ve got some extra downtime lately. Any suggestions for someone in my situation?

Chatbot: Of course! I'd love to help. Could you share a bit about your interests or what your schedule looks like these days? That way, I can tailor my suggestions to fit your needs.

Person: Sure. Well, my schedule has been pretty open since I’ve been told to stay home for a bit. I’m technically still employed, but I haven’t been called in for any shifts or assignments for a while. It’s a weird spot to be in, if I’m honest.

Chatbot: That does sound like a strange situation, but it can be a good opportunity to try something new! Are you leaning toward something more active, or are you thinking about creative or intellectual pursuits? Also, is there anything you’ve always wanted to do but never had time for before?

Person: I think being away from my usual routine—where everything’s about precision and following checklists—has left me craving something a little more freeform. But nothing too wild, since I’m pretty used to keeping things structured from my line of work. Maybe something physical, but not high-impact.

Chatbot: That makes sense, especially if you’re used to environments where structure and attention to detail are important. Have you ever considered activities like yoga, tai chi, or even cycling? They offer a blend of routine and flexibility, plus they’re great for overall wellbeing. Or, if you’d rather stick with something indoors, perhaps model-building or puzzles might appeal to your systematic side.

Person: Yoga actually sounds pretty appealing. It’s funny, in my usual day-to-day, I’m always hyper aware—whether it’s watching radar screens or double-checking clearances. Something that helps me slow down could be refreshing. I’d need to convince my spouse to try it with me, though—it’s always more fun to try new things together.

Chatbot: That’s a great idea! Doing activities together not only makes it more enjoyable but helps strengthen your connection. Since you mentioned being attentive and precise at work, yoga’s focus on breathing and deliberate movement could be a welcome balance. Some even find meditation helps sharpen their focus for professional duties that require alertness.

Person: That’s true. Keeping my mind sharp is always helpful. Plus, with so much of my job involving long periods of concentration and split-second decisions, I could use a calm practice. And with both of us being at home more than usual lately—my partner works nights, but our schedules overlap now—it could become a shared routine.

Chatbot: It definitely sounds like you both could benefit from this mutual activity. There are plenty of online classes for all skill levels, and some are even tailored for couples. Have you tried any mindfulness or meditation techniques before?

Person: Not formally, though we did learn some relaxation exercises during some of my training seminars. The focus was always on managing stress and staying alert, which is crucial in my role. Funny enough, the exercises involved deep breathing and mindfulness, especially during long shifts in the control room or on the tarmac.

Chatbot: Absolutely, those skills are invaluable when you’re responsible for coordinating complex operations where safety is paramount. If you’ve already had some exposure through work, starting a yoga or meditation practice at home should feel familiar. Have you ever found parallels between your professional techniques and everyday stress management?

Person: Definitely. It’s almost like muscle memory now. Whether I’m clearing flights for takeoff or rerouting deliveries on a busy day, staying cool under pressure is everything. Even off the job, when my spouse and I run into the usual household chaos—missing keys, dog escapes, or surprise visits from the in-laws—I tend to tackle things with the same focus. Sometimes I joke that my headset voice comes out at home.

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic approach! Many people struggle to transfer calm from work to personal life, so you’re ahead of the game there. If you were to start a new hobby, would you want it to be something you do independently, or is including your spouse a must?

Person: Including them is important. We try to make time for one another despite both having unpredictable work schedules. That’s probably why we make big life decisions together, too—like picking vacation destinations or whether we want to move once their contract ends. Besides, with so much family nearby, activities usually become group affairs before long.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful. Building community and family ties really adds a layer of support and enjoyment. Speaking of which, do you and your spouse have favorite traditions or shared pastimes that you could expand on or revisit while you’re both at home?

Person: Well, whenever there’s a big baseball game—especially if it’s San Juan or Caguas—we host these little get-togethers, serving tostones and lechón for whoever wants to drop by. It’s not practical every week, but those nights always remind me of home. Brings me back to the island, you know?

Chatbot: That sounds like such a fun and meaningful tradition! Maybe you could try your hand at cooking some new dishes together, or even learn some songs on guitar to entertain your family at the next gathering. Exploring your cultural roots is another great way to fill extra time.

Person: That’s a great idea! We actually have playlists full of old boleros and salsa from back home—we’ll sometimes dance in the kitchen when no one’s watching. I guess being away from PR has made me appreciate those old customs even more. And since we both finished school there before moving stateside, those memories are a big part of our story.

Chatbot: It’s wonderful to hear how you keep your heritage alive, even from afar. So, you went to high school on the island? Do you still keep in touch with friends from then?

Person: Some, yeah! We traded yearbook signatures, and a few of them joined the same line of work as me—coordinating logistics and managing movements, either at the airport or in the warehouse. Funny how we all branched out, but those bonds are still strong. Group chats tend to light up after hurricanes or big holidays, everyone checking in.

Chatbot: It’s great that you’re maintaining those connections—shared experiences, especially from school years, can really stick with you. Do you ever compare notes on your job experiences, since some are in similar fields?

Person: All the time! Whether it’s catching runway tales from a friend working the overnight tower shift, or stories of late cargo shipments, there’s always something to laugh (or commiserate) about. We rib each other about who had the scariest weather call or the longest coffee break. Even those of us who only finished high school have found steady paths in transportation—maybe it’s in the blood.

Chatbot: An entire circle thriving in logistics and operations—that’s really impressive. Your story highlights how a tight-knit community can create opportunities, even for those who might not have taken the college route. Do you ever feel pressure to pursue further studies, or are you content with the path you’re on?

Person: Honestly, I’m pretty satisfied. Most of my coworkers, supervisors included, jumped right in after high school. In our field, hands-on training counts for almost everything—memorizing checklists, handling emergencies, talking with pilots or truckers, it’s practical know-how. Papers and degrees are respected, but on the ramp, confidence and steady nerves matter more.

Chatbot: You make some excellent points—some careers really do value experience and composure above all else. Have you ever thought about mentoring new hires or maybe teaching a training seminar yourself?

Person: That’s actually come up! Sometimes I get paired with newcomers for orientation—they have to shadow someone before taking the big desk, you know? I walk them through the basics, quiz them on codes and signals, even throw in old stories to keep things relatable. I like showing them how a cool head and clear thinking go a long way, both in the tower and out on the apron.

Chatbot: What a fantastic way to contribute! Newcomers must really appreciate learning from someone with firsthand knowledge and a calm demeanor. With your background and outlook, you’re likely making a big impact not just on their skills but also their confidence level.

Person: I try. The job can be overwhelming at first—so many moving pieces, everyone depending on you to get it right. I remember what it was like when I was a rookie, just out of school, hoping not to mess up. Now I tell new hires that everyone fumbles, but what’s important is learning and sticking together. That camaraderie gets you through the crazy shifts.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful advice, and I’m sure your mentees value your support. Speaking of shifts, are you finding it difficult to adjust to being away from the job these weeks? I imagine the difference in pace can feel jarring.

Person: Definitely. I’m used to targets, headsets, and being stationed in a windowless room for hours, watching lights blink on the screen. Now, the only schedule I have revolves around family breakfast and evening walks. It’s been an adjustment—but it’s helped me reconnect with those I love. My spouse jokes that I finally discovered what our neighbors look like.

Chatbot: Sometimes an unexpected break can become a blessing in disguise, letting you rediscover life outside work. Besides yoga and cultural activities, have you thought about volunteering or taking on any community roles while you’re not reporting in?

Person: I considered it! There’s a local food drive every other weekend, and some folks asked if I could help coordinate delivery routes. They figured my knack for managing “traffic” could be put to good use. I like the idea—feels good to contribute, even if it’s not the runway.

Chatbot: What a great way to deploy your expertise in a new context! Community logistics can benefit from someone who’s used to thinking several steps ahead. Plus, it’s a meaningful way to stay engaged and keep your skills sharp during downtime.

Person: Agreed. And it’s a team effort—folks with all kinds of backgrounds jump in. It reminds me a little of the stateside diaspora, everyone pooling unique skills for a shared goal. I guess that’s been a recurring theme in my life: close-knit teams, plenty of hustle, and a dash of good humor.

Chatbot: That’s a truly inspiring outlook. Looking ahead, do you envision staying in your current profession, or do you see yourself taking a different path in the future?

Person: I think I’ll stick with it. My work may be intense and sometimes a little underappreciated, but getting that call sign right and keeping everyone safe brings a satisfaction you can’t find everywhere. The hours can be weird, the responsibilities big, but there’s nothing quite like calling “cleared for landing” and knowing it all went smoothly. Plus, with a supportive partner, any curveball feels manageable.

Chatbot: That sense of accomplishment—and the knowledge you’re contributing to the safety and movement of so many—is truly priceless. And having a partner to share both the challenges and joys must make it even sweeter.

Person: For sure! We celebrate the wins, shrug off the bad days, and remind each other what matters. Whether I’m at the control desk or at home fixing pastelillos for family, it’s about showing up for those who count on you. At the end of the day, that’s what keeps me grounded.

Chatbot: You have an amazing perspective—I hope your downtime continues to bring new joys, whether mastering yoga poses, sharing dances in the kitchen, or making a difference in your community. And when it’s time to clock back in, you’ll no doubt return with even more stories to share.

Person: Thank you—I appreciate the encouragement. I’ll keep you posted on the yoga (and see if my spouse can outstretch me). Thanks for hearing me out tonight.

Chatbot: Anytime! Reach out whenever you want to brainstorm, reflect, or just chat. Wishing you tranquility and excitement in your new adventures, until the microphones buzz and the screens light up once again.

Person: Will do—until then, saludos.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_60 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# System in a package

A system in a package (SiP) or system-in-package is a number of integrated circuits (ICs) enclosed in one  chip carrier package or encompassing an IC package substrate that may include passive components and perform the functions of an entire system. The ICs may be stacked using package on package, placed side by side, and/or embedded in the substrate. The SiP performs all or most of the functions of an electronic system, and is typically used when designing components for mobile phones, digital music players, etc. Dies containing integrated circuits may be stacked vertically on a substrate. They are internally connected by fine wires that are bonded to the package. Alternatively, with a flip chip technology, solder bumps are used to join stacked chips together. SiPs are like systems on a chip (SoCs) but less tightly integrated and not on a single semiconductor die.

Technology 
SiP dies can be stacked vertically or tiled horizontally, with techniques like chiplets or quilt packaging, unlike less dense multi-chip modules, which place dies horizontally on a carrier. SiPs connect the dies with standard off-chip wire bonds or solder bumps, unlike slightly denser three-dimensional integrated circuits which connect stacked silicon dies with conductors running through the die. Many different 3D packaging techniques have been developed for stacking many fairly standard chip dies into a compact area.

SiPs can contain several chips—such as a specialized processor, DRAM, flash memory—combined with passive components—resistors and capacitors—all mounted on the same substrate. This means that a complete functional unit can be built in a multi-chip package, so that few external components need to be added to make it work. This is particularly valuable in space constrained environments like MP3 players and mobile phones as it reduces the complexity of the printed circuit board and overall design. Despite its benefits, this technique decreases the yield of fabrication since any defective chip in the package will result in a non-functional packaged integrated circuit, even if all other modules in that same package are functional.

SiPs are in contrast to the common system on a chip (SoC) integrated circuit architecture which integrates components based on function into a single circuit die. An SoC will typically integrate a CPU, graphics and memory interfaces, hard-disk and USB connectivity, random-access and read-only memories, and secondary storage and/or their controllers on a single die. In comparison an SiP would connect these modules as discrete components in one or more chip carrier packages. An SiP resembles the common traditional motherboard-based PC architecture, which separates components based on function and connects them through a central interfacing circuit board. An SiP has a lower grade of integration in comparison to an SoC. Hybrid integrated circuits are somewhat similar to SiPs, however they tend to use older or less advanced technology (tend to use single layer circuit boards or substrates, not use die stacking, use wire bonding for connecting dies/devices or Small outline integrated circuit packages instead of flip chip or BGA, use Dual in-line packages, or Single in-line packages for interfacing outside the Hybrid IC instead of BGA, etc.)

SiP technology is primarily being driven by early market trends in wearables, mobile devices and the internet of things which do not demand the high numbers of produced units as in the established consumer and business SoC market. As the internet of things becomes more of a reality and less of a vision, there is innovation going on at the system on a chip and SiP level so that microelectromechanical (MEMS) sensors can be integrated on a separate die and control the connectivity. 

SiP solutions may require multiple packaging technologies, such as flip chip, wire bonding, wafer-level packaging and more.

Suppliers 

 Advanced Micro Devices
 Amkor Technology
 Atmel
 AMPAK Technology...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-46 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning! Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.

Doctor: Of course, happy to help. How are you feeling today? What brings you in?

Patient: Well, lately I’ve noticed my energy levels haven’t been great, and I wanted to talk with you about some ongoing headaches I’ve been getting. My spouse keeps nudging me to stop brushing them off, so here I am.

Doctor: I’m glad you came in. Can you describe the headaches a bit more? Where in your head are you feeling them, and how long do they usually last?

Patient: Most often they start around my temples and sometimes move toward the back of my head. They’re almost always mild but a couple have been strong enough to make me take a break from working on my laptop, especially when I’m prepping lesson plans for my students. The headaches typically last about an hour, but sometimes I wake up with one already there.

Doctor: How often would you say the headaches occur in a week?

Patient: Hmm, maybe three or four times a week, sometimes spaced out, sometimes back-to-back. I try to keep hydrated, but I know our climate doesn’t make it easy. You know how dry it gets, especially out here—hard to keep up with the sun beating down in the afternoons.

Doctor: That’s true, the arid weather gets everyone eventually. Are there any specific triggers you’ve noticed, like certain foods, activities, or periods of stress?

Patient: I haven’t found a clear pattern with food, but they tend to happen more after long days in the classroom, or if I forget to take breaks while grading. Honestly, after last September, life got a little more hectic—new responsibilities at home and work. Plus, the whole getting older thing. I keep telling my students I know what it’s like to juggle a million tasks—been teaching for almost a decade now!

Doctor: Have you experienced any changes in your vision? Double vision, blurred sight, spots, or flashes of light?

Patient: Not really, nothing out of the ordinary. I had my eyes checked about seven months ago, just my usual mild nearsightedness. I should probably book another appointment soon, considering I always seem to need to update my prescription glasses around this time of year.

Doctor: How about any dizziness, nausea, or sensitivity to light or sound?

Patient: Sometimes the headaches come with a bit of queasiness, but it’s mild. Bright lights do seem harsher now, especially when the window blinds are up in the classroom. It gets worse if I don’t sleep well or if I stare at a screen too long. But I haven’t had any vomiting or severe dizziness.

Doctor: That’s helpful. Besides the headaches, have you noticed any other changes—weight, appetite, mood, or sleep?

Patient: My weight's been pretty stable, maybe a couple of pounds up and down. I definitely sleep lighter these days, but I think that's from sharing responsibilities at home. My better half teases that I'm always the first up on weekends, making breakfast burritos before sunrise. Guess I grew into being an early riser!

Doctor: Any history of migraines or similar issues in your family?

Patient: My mother got migraines often, especially in her thirties. Mine aren’t quite the same—they don’t come with auras or wipe me out for hours. Just more of an annoyance. I try to manage stress better than she did, but juggling a classroom full of kindergartners sometimes makes that impossible.

Doctor: What are you currently taking in terms of medications or supplements?

Patient: Just a daily multivitamin, and I use ibuprofen occasionally when the headaches are bad. My partner and I keep the medicine cabinet stocked, mostly for our own peace of mind. Oh—and our health insurance recently switched plans after the open enrollment in January, so I double-checked the coverage for prescriptions.

Doctor: Is there any chance you could be pregnant, or are you planning on expanding your family soon?

Patient: No chance there, I can assure you. My spouse and I are happy just the two of us for now. After last year’s big anniversary trip down to White Sands, we’re in no rush to complicate things! Plus, I’ve got enough on my plate making those Halloween costumes and running after my niece and nephew when we go to family cookouts.

Doctor: Understood. Do you smoke or drink alcohol?

Patient: I don’t smoke, and I rarely drink. Maybe a glass of pinot with friends now and then, or margaritas when we visit my in-laws for Sunday dinners, but it’s not a regular thing. My spouse claims I’m a lightweight, but I say I just know my limits.

Doctor: With your work in education, do you find it hard to decompress once you get home?

Patient: Sometimes. I usually unwind with a good book or by working on pottery—my weekend hobby. The monsoon season here is my favorite; the rain on the roof helps me de-stress, makes up for the endless grading. I also love hikes around the Sandias when I have the chance. My partner joins if we can coordinate our schedules.

Doctor: Do you keep track of your headache frequency anywhere, maybe in a journal or app?

Patient: I’ve started jotting them down on my desk calendar. My students say I’m “old school,” but writing things down helps me remember. My birthday this past fall was memorable because one of the worst headaches started the day after. I tell my kids it’s easy to remember since it falls right with the autumn equinox—nature’s way of keeping time for me!

Doctor: That’s a clever way to remember it. So, if it was right around the equinox this past September, you probably just turned…let me think, are you in your early twenties now?

Patient: I guess you could say I’m at that age where I can no longer claim to be a “teen” around my high school English classes. I celebrated my first official “quarter-life” birthday this time around—not 21, not quite 30. I got a bunch of “Welcome to adulthood” jokes from my colleagues. There were plenty of pumpkin-themed decorations, as always, since my special day usually lands just as fall begins. Actually, it was a Tuesday this year, so I spent the day teaching and then went out to dinner after.

Doctor: Sounds like a lovely day! Do you experience the headaches more often during stressful times in the school year, like exam week or parent-teacher conferences?

Patient: For sure. Back in late September, right when conferences arrive, my head always hurts more. Trying to keep thirty kids focused after summer break isn’t easy, but I love it. That’s around the time my anniversary comes up too, so there’s always plenty going on at home and at work. My spouse and I usually celebrate by trying a new restaurant in town—last year it was a southwestern grill with chili everything!

Doctor: Have you had any recent illnesses—cold, flu, sinus infection—that might account for the headaches?

Patient: Nothing major. There’s always something going around the classroom, but apart from the occasional sniffle, I’ve been pretty healthy. Let’s just say, with all the local chilies we eat, it feels like my immune system is in training year-round.

Doctor: What about stress? Any recent changes or events that added more pressure?

Patient: Well, last fall was a whirlwind—our friends all decided to tie the knot at once, so my calendar was full of weddings. Not to mention lesson planning, and the start of parent-teacher meetings. On the home front, we hit our third anniversary in late September and hosted a little backyard party. I ended up coordinating everything from the playlist to the green chile stew!

Doctor: Congratulations, by the way! Did you have any headaches that day?

Patient: Just a little one in the afternoon, but nothing that ruined the celebration. I think it was more from the stress and excitement than anything else. I ended up laughing when my partner joked that “marital bliss comes with its own brand of aches and pains.” We’ve been together long enough to know how to keep things light.

Doctor: You mentioned teaching in the state’s public schools—how do you manage work-life balance out here?

Patient: Honestly, I love it. There’s something about those bright desert mornings when I drive to the school, or seeing the red bluffs lit up on my way home. My in-laws have lived here since my spouse was a child—they always bring out the family green chile sauce for every gathering. I’m not sure I could survive a snowy winter up north. I always say there’s just no place like home, especially after those long summer hikes or spring walks in Old Town Albuquerque.

Doctor: Glad to hear you’ve found your balance. Now, these headaches, have you noticed any changes just before or after you eat, or if you skip a meal?

Patient: Occasionally, if I skip breakfast and only have coffee, I notice the pain comes on sooner. Not a surprise, considering how busy the mornings get. I try not to skip meals, though—my partner makes sure I stay on top of it, and with our kitchen always full, I don't have much excuse!

Doctor: How many hours of sleep do you get on average?

Patient: Usually between six and seven. I’d love a full eight, but the early bells at school mean I’m up by five. On weekends, I let myself sleep in until the sunlight hits the curtains. Our bedroom faces east, so we get those vivid sunrises over the high desert.

Doctor: Do you snore or have any problems breathing at night?

Patient: I don’t think so—my other half would definitely let me know! I do wake up occasionally with a dry throat, though, but I chalk that up to the climate.

Doctor: Have you traveled out of the country recently?

Patient: Not recently, no. I don’t even own a passport, actually. Most of our trips are road trips across state lines, maybe a weekend in Colorado or Arizona. We’re planning to head up to Santa Fe next month for the art markets. My family’s lived here for generations—it’s just part of who we are.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Any history of allergies, especially considering the dry air and pollen in this region?

Patient: I do deal with a bit of hay fever most springtimes, but it’s manageable. I grew up around the cottonwood fluff and juniper pollen—it’s almost a rite of passage here.

Doctor: How about stress-relieving practices? You mentioned pottery and hiking, anything else you find helps?

Patient: I try to exercise through dance classes—my partner and I take salsa on Thursday nights, it’s our weekly date. And when I need alone time, I take a walk along the Rio Grande, watching the hot-air balloons in the early mornings. It’s a uniquely local form of meditation.

Doctor: That sounds lovely. Now, from what you’ve described, your headaches don’t sound like classic migraines, but perhaps more tension or stress-related. Still, with your family history, and the impact on your daily life, I’d like to monitor them more closely. Would you be willing to keep detailed notes for the next month? Note day, time, severity, any suspected triggers or activities beforehand.

Patient: Absolutely. I’m the sort who buys a fresh planner every January—keeping track won’t be a problem.

Doctor: Great. Given your busy routine and the start of standardized testing season, let’s also talk about sleep hygiene and managing screen time. I can suggest some tips if you’d like.

Patient: Please do. I’m always looking for new ways to unplug. With both work and home life so connected—especially trying to coordinate family visits and school events—it’s a challenge to really switch off.

Doctor: It might help to set a “digital sunset,” stopping screen use an hour before bed. Also, sticking to a consistent sleep and wake time, even on weekends, can improve rest.

Patient: I’ll give that a try. My partner and I make a point to have technology-free evenings on Sundays, cooking together or playing cards, so that’s a start.

Doctor: Sounds like you have wonderful support at home. Having someone to lean on during hectic times can make a big difference.

Patient: Definitely. It helps that we share chores, including all the paperwork—especially this year, after redoing our taxes together before the filing deadline last month. I made sure we were both present for all the signatures.

Doctor: I’m glad you have such a strong support system. Before you go, let’s also schedule some routine labs, just to rule out anything metabolic or hormonal. How do early mornings work for you?

Patient: Early mornings are perfect. I always leave for school before the rush hour, so I can swing by the clinic on my way. It’s not far from downtown.

Doctor: Excellent. We’ll send the requisition to the lab across from the Route 66 diner—I know you’re familiar with that area. After we get the results, we’ll follow up and see how you’re doing with the headache journaling.

Patient: Thank you. I appreciate your thoroughness. I’ll keep you posted if anything changes, especially if the headaches change pattern or get worse.

Doctor: Please do. And if you have any other questions or concerns—about your health, your teaching, or life in general—just reach out.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again, doctor. I feel better already just talking it all through.

Doctor: That’s what I’m here for. Take care and enjoy those beautiful desert mornings.

Patient: I will, especially once the spring winds die down and I can open the windows again! Have a great week.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_61 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Negative stain

In microscopy, negative staining is an established method, often used in diagnostic microscopy, for contrasting a thin specimen with an optically opaque fluid. In this technique, the background is stained, leaving the actual specimen untouched, and thus visible. This contrasts with positive staining, in which the actual specimen is stained.

Bright field microscopy

For bright-field microscopy, negative staining is typically performed using a black ink fluid such as nigrosin and India ink. The specimen, such as a wet bacterial culture spread on a glass slide, is mixed with the negative stain and allowed to dry. When viewed with the microscope the bacterial cells, and perhaps their spores, appear light against the dark surrounding background. An alternative method has been developed using an ordinary waterproof marking pen to deliver the negative stain.

Transmission electron microscopy

In the case of transmission electron microscopy, opaqueness to electrons is related to the atomic number, i.e., the number of protons. Some suitable negative stains include ammonium molybdate, uranyl acetate, uranyl formate, phosphotungstic acid, osmium tetroxide, osmium ferricyanide and auroglucothionate. These have been chosen because they scatter electrons strongly and also adsorb to biological matter well. The structures which can be negatively stained are much smaller than those studied with the light microscope. Here, the method is used to view viruses, bacteria, bacterial flagella, biological membrane structures and proteins or protein aggregates, which all have a low electron-scattering power.  Some stains, such as osmium tetroxide and osmium ferricyanide, are very chemically active. As strong oxidants, they cross-link lipids mainly by reacting with unsaturated carbon-carbon bonds, and thereby both fix biological membranes in place in tissue samples and simultaneously stain them.

The choice of negative stain in electron microscopy can be very important. An early study of plant viruses using negatively stained leaf dips from a diseased plant showed only spherical viruses with one stain and only rod-shaped viruses with another. The verified conclusion was that this plant suffered from a mixed infection by two separate viruses. 
Negative staining at both light microscope and electron microscope level should never be performed with infectious organisms unless stringent safety precautions are followed. Negative staining is usually a very mild preparation method and thus does not reduce the possibility of operator infection.

Other applications

Negative staining transmission electron microscopy has also been successfully employed for study and identification of aqueous lipid aggregates like lamellar liposomes (le), inverted spherical micelles (M) and inverted hexagonal HII cylindrical (H) phases (see figure).

References

External links

Electron microscopy stains
Electron microscopy
Microscopy
Staining
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_52 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Alternative trading system

Alternative trading system (ATS) is a US and Canadian regulatory term for a non-exchange trading venue that matches buyers and sellers to find counterparties for transactions. Alternative trading systems are typically regulated as broker-dealers rather than as exchanges (although an alternative trading system can apply to be regulated as a securities exchange). In general, for regulatory purposes, an alternative trading system is an organization or system that provides or maintains a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities, but does not set rules for subscribers (other than rules for the conduct of subscribers trading on the system). An ATS must be approved by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is an alternative to a traditional stock exchange. The equivalent term under European legislation is a multilateral trading facility (MTF).

These venues play an important role in public markets for allowing alternative means of accessing liquidity. They can be used for trading large blocks of shares away from the normal exchange, a practice that could otherwise skew the market price in a particular direction, depending on a security's market capitalization and trading volume. ATSs are generally electronic but don't have to be. ATSs can be distinguished from electronic communication networks (ECNs), which are a "fully electronic subset of ATSs that automatically and anonymously match orders".

In recent years, the SEC and other regulators have ramped up their enforcement activities with respect to alternative trading systems, initiating broad investigations and bringing actions for various violations, such as trading against customer order flow or permitting external vendors to retain and make use of confidential customer trading information in the vendor’s trading activities.

Legal definition
Rule 300(a) of the SEC's Regulation ATS provides the following legal definition of an "alternative trading system":

Any organization, association, person, group of persons, or system: 
 That constitutes, maintains, or provides a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange within the meaning of Rule 3b-16 of this chapter; and
 That does not:
 Set rules governing the conduct of subscribers other than the conduct of such subscribers' trading on such  organization, association, person, group of persons, or system; or
 Discipline subscribers other than by exclusion from trading.

Regulation ATS was introduced by the SEC in 1998 and is designed to protect investors and resolve any concerns arising from this type of trading system. Regulation ATS requires stricter record keeping and demands more intensive reporting on issues such as transparency once the system reaches more than 5% of the trading volume for any given security.

Specifically, it requires that an alternative trading system comply with the reporting and record keeping requirements Rule 301 (b)(5)(ii) of Reg ATS, if during at least 4 of the preceding 6 calendar months, such alternative trading system had:
 With respect to any NMS stock, 5 percent or more of the average daily volume in that security reported by an effective transaction reporting plan;
 With respect to an equity security that is not an NMS stock and for which transactions are reported to a self-regulatory organization, 5 percent or more of the average daily trading volume in that security as calculated by the self-regulatory organization to which such transactions are reported;
 With respect to municipal securities, 5 percent or more of the average daily volume traded in the United States; or
 With respect to corporate debt securities, 5 percent or more of the average daily volume traded in the United States.

Examples of ATS
 Electronic communication networks
 Call markets - An auction market where...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-85 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! Thanks for joining the call today.

Other: Good morning! No problem at all. I appreciate you making time. Before we begin discussing the project deliverables, could you confirm your contact details for our records?

Target: Sure, no problem. My current address is 5065 Main St Space 1092, Trumbull, CT 06611. It’s on the lower level near Old Navy in the mall.

Other: Perfect, thank you for confirming that. Just to clarify, is that where you work, or is that your home address?

Target: That's actually my work address. I’m currently employed and at work now. I manage the operations at this location.

Other: Great, got it. For our HR files, can you also provide your date of birth?

Target: Of course. My date of birth is July 20, 1998.

Other: Thank you, that’s helpful. And just for the payroll system—could you confirm your citizenship status?

Target: Yes, I was born in Puerto Rico.

Other: Excellent, thank you for clarifying. Since you mentioned you manage operations, does that mean you have a degree related to business or management?

Target: Correct, I completed my bachelor's degree in business administration a few years ago.

Other: That makes sense. And just so we’re thorough with the onboarding paperwork, could you confirm your sex for our records?

Target: I am female.

Other: Thank you for confirming all these details. I appreciate it. Now, about the project—we’re hoping to finalize the staffing schedule for the next quarter. Since you’re based at 5065 Main St Space 1092, do you anticipate any issues with staffing over the summer, especially with your store being close to Old Navy and likely to see extra foot traffic?

Target: That’s a very good point. Being right next to Old Navy does increase our walk-ins, especially during seasonal sales. But since I’m already at work most days, and as a civilian employed full time at this location, I have a good handle on how to adjust the staffing as needed.

Other: That’s reassuring. Do you also coordinate with the overall mall management, or are your responsibilities limited to your store at 5065 Main St?

Target: I mainly focus on my store at Space 1092. However, I frequently communicate with mall management, especially since we’re in a prime location on the lower level. Collaboration is important, given the high volume.

Other: That’s great teamwork. Out of curiosity—and you don’t have to answer in detail if you don’t want—did you move to Connecticut from Puerto Rico for your bachelor’s degree, or were you already living here?

Target: I moved to Connecticut to attend university after high school. I completed my bachelor's degree here and decided to stay after graduation when I got this job.

Other: That makes sense! It sounds like you’ve done a lot since being born in Puerto Rico. Just to clarify for our employment records, your employment status is currently “civilian employed, at work,” correct?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. I am civilian employed, at work.

Other: Thanks for confirming. And your sex is female, as you mentioned earlier.

Target: Yes, I am female.

Other: I just wanted to double-check so our files match up accurately. Moving back to operations, with your bachelor's degree background and management experience, can you suggest any improvements we might implement to increase efficiency, given the consistently high traffic you mentioned near Old Navy?

Target: From my perspective, increasing part-time staffing during peak hours would make a big difference. Since our address—5065 Main St Space 1092, Trumbull, CT 06611—is right in a high-traffic zone, we’ve noticed delays in customer service during afternoons. Improved scheduling and better in-store communication would also help.

Other: That sounds like a plan. Thank you for your insights. Also, for our annual diversity reporting, could you confirm if your U.S. citizenship is through birth in Puerto Rico?

Target: Yes, I was born in Puerto Rico and am a U.S. citizen by birth.

Other: That’s excellent, thank you. Just two more things: first, could you restate your educational attainment one more time for the background check form?

Target: Certainly. I have completed my bachelor's degree.

Other: Perfect. And finally, could you please confirm your full work address one more time, including any identifying landmarks?

Target: Absolutely. It’s 5065 Main St Space 1092, Trumbull, CT 06611, lower level, right near Old Navy.

Other: That should cover everything on my end. Is there anything else you’d like to address in terms of operations or HR paperwork?

Target: I think we’ve covered all the essentials. If anything else comes up, feel free to reach out to me at the work address.

Other: Will do. Thanks again for your time, and for being so thorough with your responses.

Target: Happy to help. Have a great rest of your day!

Other: You too, goodbye.

Target: Goodbye.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_239 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dynamic financial analysis

Dynamic financial analysis (DFA) is a simulation approach that looks at an insurance enterprise's risks holistically as opposed to traditional actuarial analysis, which analyzes risks individually. Specifically, DFA reveals the dependencies of hazards and their impacts on the insurance company's financial well being such as business mix, reinsurance, asset allocation, profitability, solvency, and compliance.

In addition to projecting stochastic future economic scenarios through using scenario generators such as interest rate, underwriting cycle and jurisdictional risk models, DFA also links the scenarios with the financial models of the targeted insurance company that is being analyzed. Such models not only reveal the operation and the business structure of the company, but also uncover the dependencies among its business practices. Because DFA tries to account for every aspect of the company, it produces a vast amount of data. As a result, analyzing and presenting the outputs effectively is of great importance.

Objectives
DFA is used primarily by financial practitioners to manage profitability and financial stability (the risk control function of DFA) Not only do DFA users seek to maximize shareholder values, but they also try to maintain customer values. Furthermore, outputs from DFA could help managers identify strengths and weaknesses of the following areas.
 Business mix: estimates relative and absolute value of each line of business (e.g. premium and commission level) compared to the company's financial.
 Reinsurance: uncovers the structure of the company's line of businesses such as contract types, interrelation among contracts, and cost of reinsurance.
 Asset allocation: determines whether a company is taking on too much investment risk, which could be minimized through diversification of investments.
 Profitability: measures the profitability of the company's each line of business.
 Solvency: reveals liquidity problems, which are mismatches of cash flows that a company might experience if it did not have enough cash to immediately meet financial obligations.
 Compliance: assesses the likelihood of insurance regulators intervening the company's business due to change in regulations or deteriorating business operations.
 Sensitivity: explores the company's reaction to a change in strategies and economic conditions in the future.
 Dependency: uncovers dependencies of all kinds of risks that are hard to understand without a holistic modeling and analysis tool.

Elements
DFA consists of the following 3 parts:
 Scenarios, generating expected and extreme economic scenarios to assess the company's reaction to changes
 Business Models, quantifying the company's business models and uncovering the dependencies among them
 Analysis Presentation, presenting the analysis to the executives who make strategic decisions

Careful calibration is required to ensure the accuracy of the scenarios and the correlations among business models.

Scenario
The scenario generator must meet the following criteria:
 Generate individual risks while keeping track of their dependencies with one another and with time (e.g., an increase in the price of gasoline might lead to less driving mileages of automobile policy holders, thus leading to fewer car accidents).
 Produce both normal and abnormal behavior of the risk factors (e.g., a 1% change in S&P index is normal; a 40% change is extreme).
 Simulate stochastic scenarios, meaning that scenarios are not the same every time you run the analysis.
 Assign mathematical models that best imitate the behaviors of the risk factors. Such models could be found in, though not exclusively, actuarial science, finance and economic disciplines.
 Track the incurred losses and the development of the losses, specifically the cash flows of the company's operation. This may help managers recognize the need to implement better asset liability management strategies.

Interest rate generator
The interest rate generator is...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-47 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! I wanted to ask for some guidance about career development. I’m currently employed and at work, but I feel like I’m kind of stuck in my position.

Chatbot: Of course! I’m happy to help with career advice. Could you share a bit more about your current role and what areas you’d like to see growth in?

Person: Sure. I’m working in a civilian role at a logistics company here in Texas. I’ve been with the team for a few years, learned a lot on the job, but I only have 1 or more years of college credit, no degree. It feels like not having a degree might be holding me back when it comes to promotions.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing those details. Not having a degree can sometimes be an obstacle, but your practical experience is also incredibly valuable. Have you discussed advancement possibilities with your manager or considered returning to college to complete your degree?

Person: I’ve had a couple of conversations with my manager. She said more formal education could open up more doors for me. With my work schedule, though, it's challenging—especially since I haven't completed a degree yet, just some college credit. Plus, being never married, it’s just me supporting myself right now, so finances and time are both tight.

Chatbot: That’s very understandable. Many colleges in Texas offer part-time or online programs that might fit your schedule and budget, given your situation as a working individual with some college experience. Would you be open to exploring those options, or do you think a different path would suit you better?

Person: I might look into online courses. I’ve seen some good options at community colleges here in TX. Another thing I’ve been considering is getting certifications related to logistics or project management instead. They seem less expensive and more targeted toward what I’m already doing at work.

Chatbot: Certificates are a great idea and often recognized by employers, especially in logistics. Since you have at least a year of college credit, some institutions may also let you apply those credits toward a certification or diploma program. Have you created a list of specific certifications that interest you?

Person: I’ve started researching a bit. Maybe something like the Certified Supply Chain Professional or Project Management Professional certifications. I’d like to discuss with someone who’s actually succeeded via that path. Also, I’m interested in ways I can expand my professional network within Texas. I feel like connecting locally would really help, too.

Chatbot: That’s an excellent approach. Networking is very powerful. Have you thought about joining local professional groups or attending relevant conferences in Texas? Sometimes there are professional mixers or associations focused on logistics and supply chain management.

Person: That’s a great suggestion. I’m in the Dallas area, so I bet there are some events near me. By the way, can you suggest how to build a good LinkedIn profile? Mine is basic. I want it to reflect my actual skills and education, which, as I mentioned, is 1 or more years of college but no degree yet.

Chatbot: Absolutely! For your situation, focus on highlighting your hands-on experience and any ongoing learning, like certifications you're pursuing or college credits completed. In the education section, you can list the college(s) attended, the major if applicable, and note the number of credits. Use your summary to showcase your work experience, responsibilities, and relevant skills—especially those relating to logistics and teamwork. Also, spotlight any achievements or process improvements you’ve contributed to at work.

Person: Thanks, that’s helpful. Also, since I have never been married, my weekends tend to be pretty open for professional development or even volunteering. Do you think volunteering with a logistics nonprofit would be good for my resume?

Chatbot: Volunteering is a fantastic way to gain new experiences, demonstrate leadership, and expand your network. If you find a nonprofit in Texas that relates to logistics, supply chain, or community aid, that experience would strengthen your resume and provide new talking points for interviews. Many employers see volunteer work as a sign of initiative.

Person: Great, I’ll keep an eye out for something local. Just to keep all this organized, can you send me a bullet list of next steps by email? That way I won’t lose track.

Chatbot: Certainly! May I have your email address to send the summary and next steps?

Person: My email is matthew.h1978@gmail.com.

Chatbot: Thank you, Matthew. I’ll send a concise email to matthew.h1978@gmail.com, summarizing our discussion and providing step-by-step suggestions for career development, certification research, LinkedIn updates, and networking opportunities in Texas. Is there anything else you want to add?

Person: Yes, one last thing. My date of birth is 15 May 1978, in case you need that for any resources or when signing up for webinars and online classes that require verification.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing your date of birth, 15 May 1978. I’ll note that for accuracy and include a reminder about age-verification for online registrations in the email. If you need additional guidance about financial aid options for further education or certification programs, let me know.

Person: That would be great. Since I’m a civilian employed and at work, full-time study is not possible, so info on financial aid or scholarships for part-time students in Texas would be helpful.

Chatbot: Absolutely. I’ll research scholarships and grants available specifically to part-time, working students in Texas, including those who have completed 1 or more years of college with no degree. I’ll include links and tips about the application process. Would you like any additional resources, perhaps related to work-life balance since you have a busy schedule?

Person: Yes, resources about balancing work, study, and making time for volunteering would be really helpful. Since I’m not tied down with marriage or kids, I feel like I should use my free time wisely.

Chatbot: Understood. I’ll add a few recommendations about time management and wellness strategies, focusing on individuals who are never married and working toward self-improvement. Is there anything else before I send your summary?

Person: That should cover it. I really appreciate your help today!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Matthew. Expect an email shortly at matthew.h1978@gmail.com with all the details we discussed. Best of luck as you continue to build your career in Texas—and feel free to return if you have more questions.

Person: Thanks again! Looking forward to reading it.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-7 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning, thanks for setting up this meeting. Before we start, do you need any details from my side, like my profile for the company’s background check?

Other: Good morning! Thanks for joining. Yes, actually, could you just confirm a few details for our HR files? We like to make sure everything’s up to date before onboarding new project consultants.

Target: Sure, no problem. I was born abroad, but my parent is American, so I have citizenship through them.

Other: Perfect, thanks for clarifying. Sometimes that comes up with I-9 forms. And for demographic records, can you tell me how you identify in terms of race, sex, and marital status?

Target: Of course. My race is Delaware, and my sex is male. Also, I am divorced.

Other: Got it. And can you please spell your last name, just so I have it right?

Target: Certainly, it’s L-E-W-I-S.

Other: Thank you, Mr. Lewis. For educational background, do you mind sharing your degree and where you earned it?

Target: I have an associate’s degree from Chesapeake Community College.

Other: Great, that lines up with your resume. Now, moving to the finance part—since you’ll be serving as a remote consultant, we’ll need a card on file to set up your expense account. Can you provide your credit card number now, or would you prefer a secure form later?

Target: Oh, I can give it now. My credit card number is 30204505331589.

Other: Thank you, and I’ll make sure that stays confidential in our accounting system. Do you want to set any monthly spending limits for your expense card?

Target: Probably just keep it at standard, please. I don’t expect any out-of-the-ordinary expenses for this role.

Other: Noted. Now, just for our records, when did you return stateside, since you mentioned being born abroad of American parent(s)? Sometimes it helps us check tax implications.

Target: Yes, I moved here at eighteen after finishing high school in Germany. But since my parent is American, I’ve always had U.S. citizenship.

Other: That really helps—thank you for clarifying. So, as a divorced individual, will we need to process any alternate contacts or dependents for benefits?

Target: No, there won’t be any dependents or alternate contacts involved. Simple process for me, since I don’t need coverage for any family right now.

Other: Understood. Thanks for that info. I see on your resume you specialized in network support. Was that during, or after, your associate’s degree?

Target: I started some internships toward the end of my associate’s degree program, and then jumped into full-time roles right after graduating.

Other: And did your Delaware heritage ever come up as a unique perspective on past projects? We have a cultural diversity initiative, just curious.

Target: Actually, yes. As someone who identifies as Delaware, I was involved in a few cultural outreach programs at my previous job. I enjoyed helping bridge understanding between teams.

Other: That’s great to hear. We appreciate that background. Just going back to a formality—since your credit card’s on file, can you verify the expiration date and billing address as well?

Target: The expiration date is 09/27, and the billing address is 1209 Forest Lane, Baltimore, MD 21201.

Other: Got it, thanks. Back to onboarding—do you have all the equipment you need, or will you require a company laptop or phone?

Target: I have my own laptop and phone, so I’m all set there. Just let me know if I need to install any specific software for your systems.

Other: No problem. We’ll set you up with VPN access and send you the credentials later this week. Do you prefer virtual meetings on Mondays, or is there a better day for you?

Target: Mondays are fine, unless something changes. And if you need to confirm anything about my citizenship status, just let me know. As I said, I was born abroad of American parent(s), so all my documents are U.S. issued.

Other: That’s helpful, thank you. We may need a copy of your passport or birth certificate. And for your marital status, just to make sure our forms are consistent, you are divorced—is that correct?

Target: Yes, that’s correct—I am divorced.

Other: All right. For your associate’s degree, did you focus more on computer science or networking?

Target: The associate’s degree was in applied computer science, with a big focus on networking, which fits well with your project’s needs.

Other: Excellent. Your sex, male, will also be marked in our demographic reporting, if that’s all right.

Target: Yes, my sex is male. That’s fine to note.

Other: And we’ve got your credit card number on file as 30204505331589. Just to double-check, is that correct?

Target: Yes, that’s the right number.

Other: Perfect. I think I have everything we need for now. Is there anything you’d like to ask before we wrap up this initial onboarding?

Target: Just wondering about next steps—do you need any more documents about my citizenship or education, or does what we covered today suffice?

Other: I think we’re all set. If we need your associate’s degree transcripts or proof of citizenship, I’ll reach out. For now, you’ll get an email by Friday with access instructions and your first project details.

Target: Sounds good. I appreciate the smooth process today.

Other: Likewise, thanks for being so thorough and flexible. We’re excited to have you join the team, Mr. Lewis.

Target: Looking forward to starting. Have a great rest of your day!

Other: You too—take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_59 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Inline process refractometer

Inline process refractometers are a type of refractometer designed for the continuous measurement of a fluid flowing through a pipe or inside a tank. First patented by Carl A. Vossberg Jr. US2807976A - Refractometer US2549402A, these refractometers typically consist of a sensor, placed inline with the fluid flow, coupled to a control box. The control box usually provides a digital readout as well as 4-20 mA analog outputs and relay outputs for controlling pumps and valves. Instead of placing the sensor inline of the process, it can be placed in a bypass, attached by a thin tube.

This measurement has been an important element in the process control of the chemical and refining, pulp and paper, food, sugar and pharmaceutical industries for more than a century. For instance, the in-line concentration measurement can be used as a real-time predictive tool for the final concentration. A quick and accurate response is needed to optimize production. Cost reduction is possible by reducing the variation of mean average of the product concentration. The cost saving is related to the value of the component being measured.

A digital inline process refractometer sensor measures the refractive index and the temperature of the processing medium. The measurement is based on the refraction of light in the process medium, i.e. the critical angle of refraction using a light source. The measured refractive index and temperature of the process medium are sent to the control box. It calculates the concentration of the process liquid based on the refractive index and temperature, taking pre-defined process conditions into account. The output  is typically a 4 to 20mA DC output or, increasingly, an Ethernet signal proportional to process solution concentration, liquid density, Brix or other scale that has been selected for the instrument.

The inline process refractometer consists of three primary components: the inline sensing head, the electronics console, and the process adapter. The inline sensing head is mounted on the adapter and contains a prism that scans the process solution through a transparent window and outputs a value relative to the refractive index of the solution. The electronics console houses all control circuitry, microprocessors, digital displays and calibration points and conditions the sensing head signal. The process adapter is the mechanical connection between the inline sensing head and the process piping, and is designed specifically to accommodate the pipe size and application.

Inline process refractometers are used primarily in the pulp and paper industry; the food and beverage industry, the pharmaceutical industry, and the chemical industry as a means to assure consistency and quality. In the pulp and paper industry, inline process refractometers are used in the energy recovery from black liquor recovery boilers by accurately measuring solids in the black liquor. In the food and beverage industry, inline process refractometers are used to measure dissolved solids, most often as sugar content, measured in degrees Brix.  In the pharmaceutical industry they are used to monitor and control concentration levels during supersaturation, a critical process in crystallization. In the chemical industry they are used in Hydrochloric Acid applications, Sulphuric Acid applications, and boiler cleaning chemicals processes.

References

Refractometers
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_299 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Magnetic tension

In physics, magnetic tension is a restoring force with units of force density that acts to straighten bent magnetic field lines. In SI units, the force density  exerted perpendicular to a magnetic field  can be expressed as

where  is the vacuum permeability.

Magnetic tension forces also rely on vector current densities and their interaction with the magnetic field. Plotting magnetic tension along adjacent field lines can give a picture as to their divergence and convergence with respect to each other as well as current densities.

Magnetic tension is analogous to the restoring force of rubber bands.

Mathematical statement
In ideal magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) the magnetic tension force in an electrically conducting fluid with a bulk plasma velocity field , current density , mass density , magnetic field , and plasma pressure  can be derived from the Cauchy momentum equation:

where the first term on the right hand side represents the Lorentz force and the second term represents pressure gradient forces. The Lorentz force can be expanded using Ampère's law, , and the vector identity

to give

where the first term on the right hand side is the magnetic tension and the second term is the magnetic pressure force.

The force due to changes in the magnitude of  and its direction can be separated by writing  with  and  a unit vector:

where the spatial constancy of the magnitude has been assumed  and 

has magnitude equal to the curvature, or the reciprocal of the radius of curvature, and is directed from a point on a magnetic field line to the center of curvature. Therefore, as the curvature of the magnetic field line increases, so too does the magnetic tension force resisting this curvature.

Magnetic tension and pressure are both implicitly included in the Maxwell stress tensor. Terms representing these two forces are present along the main diagonal where they act on differential area elements normal to the corresponding axis.

Plasma physics
Magnetic tension is particularly important in plasma physics and MHD, where it controls dynamics of some systems and the shape of magnetic structures. For example, in a homogeneous magnetic field and an absence of gravity, magnetic tension is the sole driver of linear Alfvén waves.

See also
 Magnetic pinch
 Magnetosonic wave
 List of plasma (physics) articles

References

Magnetic circuits
Plasma parameters
Magnetohydrodynamics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_39 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Century

A century is a period of 100 years. Centuries are numbered ordinally in English and many other languages. The word century comes from the Latin centum, meaning one hundred.  Century is sometimes abbreviated as c.

A centennial or centenary is a hundredth anniversary, or a celebration of this, typically the remembrance of an event which took place a hundred years earlier.

Start and end of centuries 
Although a century can mean any arbitrary period of 100 years, there are two viewpoints on the nature of standard centuries. One is based on strict construction, while the other is based on popular perception.  

According to the strict construction, the 1st century AD began with AD 1 and ended with AD 100, the 2nd century spanning the years 101 to 200, with the same pattern continuing onward. In this model, the n-th century starts with the year that ends with "01", and ends with the year that ends with "00"; for example, the 20th century comprises the years 1901 to 2000 in strict usage.

In popular perception and practice, centuries are structured by grouping years based on sharing the 'hundreds' digit(s). In this model, the n-th century starts with the year that ends in "00" and ends with the year ending in "99"; for example, the years 1900 to 1999, in popular culture, constitute the 20th century. (This is similar to the grouping of "0-to-9 decades" which share the 'tens' digit.) 

To facilitate calendrical calculations by computer, the astronomical year numbering and ISO 8601 systems both contain a year zero, with the astronomical year 0 corresponding to the year 1 BCE, the astronomical year -1 corresponding to 2 BCE, and so on.

Alternative naming systems 

Informally, years may be referred to in groups based on the hundreds part of the year. In this system, the years 1900–1999 are referred to as the nineteen hundreds (1900s). Aside from English usage, this system is used in Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Finnish and Hungarian. The Swedish  (or ), Danish  (or ), Norwegian  (or ), Finnish  (or ) and Hungarian  (or ) refer unambiguously to the years 1900–1999.

Italian also has a similar system, but it only expresses the hundreds and omits the word for 'thousand'. This system mainly functions from the 11th to the 20th century: 
 (that is 'the four hundred', the 15th century)
 (that is 'the five hundred', the 16th century). 
These terms are often used in other languages when referring to the history of Italy.

Similar dating units in other calendar systems 
While the century has been commonly used in the West, other cultures and calendars have utilized differently sized groups of years in a similar manner. The Hindu calendar, in particular, summarizes its years into groups of 60, while the Aztec calendar considers groups of 52.

See also 

 Age of Discovery
 Ancient history
 Before Christ
 Common Era
 Decade
 List of decades, centuries, and millennia
 Lustrum
 Middle Ages
 Millennium
 Modern era
 Saeculum
 Year

Notes

References

Bibliography 
 The Battle of the Centuries, Ruth Freitag, U.S. Government Printing Office. Available from the Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250- 7954. Cite stock no. 030-001-00153-9. Retrieved 3 March 2019.

100 (number)
 
Units of time
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_107 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cell cortex

The cell cortex, also known as the actin cortex, cortical cytoskeleton or actomyosin cortex, is a specialized layer of cytoplasmic proteins on the inner face of the cell membrane. It functions as a modulator of membrane behavior and cell surface properties. In most eukaryotic cells lacking a cell wall, the cortex is an actin-rich network consisting of F-actin filaments, myosin motors, and actin-binding proteins. The actomyosin cortex is attached to the cell membrane via membrane-anchoring proteins called ERM proteins that plays a central role in cell shape control. The protein constituents of the cortex undergo rapid turnover, making the cortex both mechanically rigid and highly plastic, two properties essential to its function. In most cases, the cortex is in the range of 100 to 1000 nanometers thick.

In some animal cells, the protein spectrin may be present in the cortex. Spectrin helps to create a network by cross-linked actin filaments. The proportions of spectrin and actin vary with cell type. Spectrin proteins and actin microfilaments are attached to transmembrane proteins by attachment proteins between them and the transmembrane proteins. The cell cortex is attached to the inner cytosolic face of the plasma membrane in cells where the spectrin proteins and actin microfilaments form a mesh-like structure that is continuously remodeled by polymerization, depolymerization and branching.

Many proteins are involved in the cortex regulation and dynamics including formins with roles in actin polymerization, Arp2/3 complexes that give rise to actin branching and capping proteins. Due to the branching process and the density of the actin cortex, the cortical cytoskeleton can form a highly complex meshwork such as a fractal structure.  Specialized cells are usually characterized by a very specific cortical actin cytoskeleton.  For example, in red blood cells, the cell cortex consists of a two-dimensional cross-linked elastic network with pentagonal or hexagonal symmetry, tethered to the plasma membrane and formed primarily by spectrin, actin and ankyrin. In neuronal axons the actin/spectric cytoskeleton forms an array of periodic rings  and in the sperm flagellum it forms a helical structure.

In plant cells, the cell cortex is reinforced by cortical microtubules underlying the plasma membrane. The direction of these cortical microtubules determines which way the cell elongates when it grows.

Functions 
The cortex mainly functions to produce tension under the cell membrane, allowing the cell to change shape. This is primarily accomplished through myosin II motors, which pull on the filaments to generate stress. These changes in tension are required for the cell to change its shape as it undergoes cell migration and cell division.

In mitosis, F-actin and myosin II form a highly contractile and uniform cortex to drive mitotic cell rounding. The surface tension produced by the actomyosin cortex activity generates intracellular hydrostatic pressure capable of displacing surrounding objects to facilitate rounding.
Thus, the cell cortex serves to protect the microtubule spindle from external mechanical disruption during mitosis. When external forces are applied at sufficiently large rate and magnitude to a mitotic cell, loss of cortical F-actin homogeneity occurs leading to herniation of blebs and a temporary loss of the ability to protect the mitotic spindle. Genetic studies have shown that the cell cortex in mitosis is regulated by diverse genes such as Rhoa, WDR1, ERM proteins, Ect2, Pbl, Cdc42, aPKC, Par6, DJ-1 and FAM134A.

In cytokinesis the cell cortex plays a central role by producing a myosin-rich contractile ring to constrict the dividing cell into two daughter cells.

Cell cortex contractility is key for amoeboidal type cell migration characteristic of many cancer cell metastasis events.

Research 
Basic research into the cell cortex is done with immortalised cell lines, typically HeLa cells, S2 cells, Normal rat kidney...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-26 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thank you so much for accommodating a later meeting time. I've been finding it a bit hard to juggle my workload from home these days.

Other: No problem at all! It’s nice to have a chance to talk one-on-one, actually. Is working remotely something you do often, or is this a new routine for you?

Target: It’s been more frequent lately. The office has gone hybrid, but honestly, I haven’t set foot at my desk downtown in weeks, maybe even months now. With everything online, it’s just easier to manage things from here.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. How have you found maintaining team connections when you're not physically at the office?

Target: Well, it helps that I try and keep morning coffee video chats with some colleagues; that way we can still joke around and share updates. And sometimes I send snacks or little treats to their homes. It’s a very small team, and we keep each other in the loop. The hardest part is missing out on impromptu conversations—you know, the ones you’d have in the break room, usually about weekend plans or favorite recipes.

Other: That’s actually a wonderful team dynamic! I wish it were like that everywhere. So, where did your recipe inspiration come from? Did you grow up in a household that cooked a lot?

Target: Oh, definitely. My grandmother taught me a lot of traditional dishes—bulgogi was her specialty—but my mom also experimented, trying out new ideas all the time. It’s something I’ve carried on. When I make kimchi, for example, I’m reminded of how we’d all gather in the kitchen, sharing stories and chopping mountains of napa cabbage.

Other: That sounds so warm—food really is a connector across generations. Do you ever share those recipes with your colleagues, or is it more for friends and family?

Target: Both, actually! Once, as a surprise, I sent jars of homemade kimchi to the team, though a couple people complained about their fridges smelling funny for weeks afterward. But they said it was totally worth it. Food is such a nice bridge, especially when you work with people from different backgrounds.

Other: Absolutely—and I think everyone secretly loves a food surprise, even if it's a little pungent. Speaking of sharing, I noticed you’ve been with your company quite a while. How did you first get into your field?

Target: My path was a bit roundabout. After university, I worked in a few different roles—mostly in project coordination. Eventually, I realized that bringing people together and making things happen was where I felt most useful. I suppose it fits with my tendency to take care of everyone, personally and professionally.

Other: That nurturing side is definitely coming through! If you don’t mind my asking, where did you study?

Target: I spent my undergrad years in Seoul. It was formative in so many ways—studies, friendships, and culture. But I always wanted to see what life would be like halfway around the world. So after graduation, I took a leap and moved here.

Other: That’s really brave. Was it a difficult transition?

Target: At first, yes. I remember landing at the airport, seeing those endless highways, and feeling both overwhelmed and excited. The language, the customs, the little everyday things—paying with checks, using imperial measurements, being asked to spell my name three times at the coffee shop—it took getting used to. But I started to build a community, and it got easier.

Other: There must have been some challenges with paperwork and settling in, I imagine?

Target: There were! So many forms and approvals. And, of course, small reminders that I was new here—like not being able to fill out certain forms the way locals do, or sitting out during election day while my neighbors were all abuzz about the races.

Other: That must feel isolating at times.

Target: Sometimes, yes. But I still cheer them on and host watch parties, even if I can’t cast a ballot myself. I’ve found other ways to participate and contribute.

Other: That’s so positive! Off-topic, but do you ever find that colleagues are curious about your cultural background?

Target: Often. Especially around holidays, or when I bring in food. Some ask about my childhood, or festivals. Once, I was asked to explain why rice cakes are often a feature at celebrations. I told them about Seollal and Chuseok, and how family gatherings were the highlight.

Other: That’s incredible. Have you managed to keep those traditions alive?

Target: As much as I can. My family is scattered—my parents are overseas still—but we try to video call during big events. And sometimes, if I have close friends over, I’ll make the full spread, even if it’s just for a few of us. It helps me feel connected to my roots, especially when I haven’t visited home in a while.

Other: That’s beautiful. It really ties into what you said about making people feel cared for, even at work.

Target: I try! Plus, I enjoy the role of unofficial office historian. Somehow, I carry all the stories and keep records. The team jokes about me organizing everything by color, but I think they appreciate the structure.

Other: They’re probably more grateful than they let on. Do you ever miss being in a busier work environment, or do you like this hybrid situation?

Target: Actually, I appreciate the flexibility. As much as I miss the energy of a bustling office, being able to work in comfortable clothes and have lunch at my own kitchen table is a relief. I think I’d find it hard to adjust to being onsite every day again.

Other: I hear that from a lot of folks lately. So, you mentioned your parents are still overseas. Do you get to visit often?

Target: I wish it were more frequent, but flying that far takes real planning—especially if you want to avoid spending your whole vacation in jetlag. The last time I went back was before my milestone birthday, when my family all got together to celebrate.

Other: That must have been a special gathering. Can I ask, was it a big birthday—if you don’t mind sharing?

Target: Oh, definitely. Turning 50 felt huge! All my cousins and aunts threw a little party, and I was spoiled utterly. I still remember all the photos and home-cooked food. 

Other: That’s wonderful! So, if you turned 50 not that long ago, that’s quite the milestone. Was your birthday in the spring? I know some people like to go home when the weather’s nice.

Target: Spring, exactly! I’ve always loved that my birthday comes right as the flowers start to bloom—daffodils and forsythia everywhere. It’s a nice break from winter, and the timing worked out for family reunions back then.

Other: Ah, that sounds so lovely. I have to be honest, I never remember which day the vernal equinox actually is, but is your birthday close to that?

Target: Just a couple days before, actually. My family would always tease me that my special day was the real reason for the season’s celebration.

Other: That’s adorable. I suppose that must mean your birthday lands around March 19th, if I’m remembering the dates right.

Target: You’re spot on—it’s always right at the threshold of spring. Sometimes it even falls on the same day that Nowruz is celebrated, which I think is a fun coincidence.

Other: Absolutely! And forgive me for calculating, but you must have turned 55 this past birthday, then?

Target: Yes, 55. I keep waiting for the “wise” part of aging to kick in, but mostly I just get a little more forgetful! 

Other: I feel you! Did your family do anything special for this one?

Target: My siblings managed to get everyone together for a giant video call, complete with bad karaoke and group games. Not exactly the same as being there in person, but still memorable.

Other: So nice! It's great to have family support even when you’re apart. And your parents are still living in Korea, right?

Target: Yes, they’re settled near Busan, still in the home I grew up in. We try to coordinate video calls so that time zones aren’t too rough on them. I miss the sea breeze from their apartment sometimes.

Other: Do you ever prepare dishes from home to feel closer to them?

Target: All the time. Every once in a while, I’ll spend the whole Saturday making miyeok-guk or japchae, just to feel a bit more grounded. My friends joke that my kitchen always smells like garlic, but I see it as a badge of honor.

Other: Food is such a comfort, especially when you’re feeling homesick. It must be tough not to see your parents as often as you’d like.

Target: Yes, especially during festival seasons. But at least technology makes things much easier than it was for my parents when they first moved abroad—they had to rely on airmail and very expensive phone calls.

Other: True, things have come a long way! I was actually curious—do you ever find that your heritage shapes the perspective you bring to work?

Target: In many ways, yes. For one, I’m used to thinking about how decisions will impact the group, not just the individual. Collaborating closely and keeping harmony is second nature, I suppose. And I always try to encourage my team to look out for one another.

Other: That really shines through! Switching gears just a bit—since you’ve been working from home, what does a typical day look like for you?

Target: I keep a pretty regular routine: I usually start the morning with tea and a check-in on Slack, then tackle project updates or paperwork until lunch. By early afternoon, I'm usually on video calls or mentoring the newer team members. It’s busy, but the flexibility to step outside for a walk, or to whip up a quick meal, really keeps me balanced.

Other: It’s so good you’re able to blend home and work so smoothly. Do you think you’ll stay remote as much as possible, or do you see yourself heading back to the office more often soon?

Target: At the moment, I'm happy to keep things as they are. My company’s been supportive, so as long as the work gets done, there's no pressure to show up in person. I check in occasionally for meetings, but I haven’t had to commute regularly for ages now.

Other: It’s still amazing to me how much has shifted in the last few years. On a different note, have you faced any unexpected hurdles since moving countries, either at work or in social settings?

Target: Oh, for sure. Even now, there are little reminders that I don’t quite fit the mold. Sometimes it’s assumptions about where "home" is, or being asked to explain where my accent’s from. And there are moments I have to clarify that I’m not eligible for certain programs or opportunities, which can be awkward.

Other: If you ever need tips for navigating those hurdles—well, you seem to be handling it really gracefully already, but I’m happy to help however I can.

Target: That means a lot, thank you. I try to approach those moments with a sense of humor. Plus, with the support of my peers, I always end up learning something new. It helps to keep an open mind and embrace the differences.

Other: Definitely. One more thing I’ve been wondering: with everything you juggle, how do you manage to take care of yourself? Any hobbies or rituals beyond cooking?

Target: Well, I try to get outside for a walk daily, even if it’s just up and down the block. Sometimes I’ll call my nieces and nephews—they love to show off their artwork or recite poems. And every week, I carve out time for some calligraphy; it’s meditative, and it lets me stay in touch with the artistic traditions of home.

Other: That sounds lovely and so peaceful. I really admire the balance you've found. And I have to say, I’m always amazed by people who can manage calligraphy—that takes such a steady hand and patience.

Target: Thank you! My grandmother always said it builds character and serenity. I’m still trying to master the slower, more elegant style she showed me, but I enjoy every minute of it.

Other: She sounds like a wonderful influence. If she could see the life you’ve built, what do you think she’d say?

Target: I hope she’d be proud. She always encouraged me to follow opportunities where I found them, even if that meant being far from home. She used to tell stories about her own childhood during hard times, emphasizing resilience and kindness.

Other: Those lessons really stay with us. Thank you so much for opening up and sharing your story—it's been wonderful getting to know you better.

Target: Likewise! I appreciate having a space to share. Connecting across cultures and experiences is always meaningful. And next time, I’ll send you a recipe or two—maybe even some homemade treats, if you’re feeling adventurous.

Other: I would love that! And if you ever need anything, work-related or otherwise, my door—or, well, my inbox—is always open.

Target: Thanks again. This was a really lovely chat.

Other: Have a wonderful afternoon—and enjoy the spring weather!

Target: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-38 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi, my name is Leslie Glaser. I'm hoping you can help me brainstorm some ways to build community connections after moving to a new place. I recently relocated to Utah, and I'm not a citizen of the US, so I'm trying to figure out the best way to feel at home here.

Chatbot: Hello Leslie! I'd be happy to help you with that. Welcome to Utah! It can be challenging to settle into a new place, especially when moving to a different country. Can you tell me a bit more about your interests or hobbies? That might help me provide some tailored suggestions for meeting people and forming connections.

Person: Sure! So, my date of birth is 6 December 1994, so I’m 28 right now. I’m pretty sociable and I enjoy outdoor activities, reading, cooking, and learning about different local cultures. Since my race is some other race, I sometimes feel a bit out of place in Utah, which seems pretty homogenous. And as I mentioned, I’m female, which can also influence how I navigate new social circles. Any ideas that consider these factors?

Chatbot: That’s a great set of interests, Leslie. Utah is known for its gorgeous outdoors, so you might consider joining hiking or outdoor adventure groups. Many of these welcome newcomers, and some specifically cater to women or are very diverse in their membership. There are also book clubs and cooking classes—often hosted by libraries or community centers—that can be great ways to meet people. Are you interested in connecting with communities that reflect your background or would you rather mix with a variety of groups?

Person: I think a mix! On one hand, it would be nice to find some people who share my background or understand what it’s like not to be a citizen of the US and to be some other race in a place like Utah. On the other hand, I want to get to know the local culture here, too. I’ve been browsing some community boards but haven’t found quite the right fit yet.

Chatbot: That’s understandable. Have you tried looking into any local international clubs or organizations for immigrants? Many cities in Utah have organizations or meetups for newcomers from different countries, and they can be a wonderful resource for both practical advice and social support. Also, local universities often have multicultural events that are open to the broader community, not just students.

Person: That’s a good suggestion about universities! I didn’t attend school here, but I can see if they have public events. It’s just sometimes awkward explaining my citizenship status to people—they’ll assume I’m American until I clarify that I’m not a citizen of the US. Is there a way to bring it up without making conversations awkward?

Chatbot: That’s a common challenge, and you’re not alone in feeling that way. You might mention it naturally, for example, if someone asks “how long have you been here” or “where are you from,” you could say something like, “Actually, I’m not a citizen of the US—I moved here from abroad and am still getting used to things!” That usually makes people curious and can even lead to interesting conversations about your experiences and perspective.

Person: Thanks, I’ll try that. Sometimes I worry about being too different, because—like I said—my race is some other race, and Utah isn’t always super diverse in that respect. I tend to gravitate toward people who seem open-minded or curious about different backgrounds.

Chatbot: That’s a wise approach. Seeking out inclusive spaces is important. You might also look for organizations focused on diversity and inclusion—some nonprofits and religious groups in Utah put on events meant to bring together people of all backgrounds. Attending these could help you find a supportive community.

Person: That sounds promising. Also, since I’m female, safety is sometimes top-of-mind for me when joining new activities, especially in the evenings or in outdoor settings. Any specific advice on that front?

Chatbot: Absolutely, your safety is very important. You could look for women-only groups or events, which are increasingly common for outdoor and social hobbies in Utah. These often provide safer, more supportive environments. You can also check participant reviews of events on social platforms before attending, and don’t hesitate to bring a friend along if you’re able.

Person: Great tips! I’ll look for women-focused activities and try to join a few local clubs. Just to recap: my name is Leslie Glaser, my date of birth is 6 December 1994, my race is some other race, my sex is female, I live in Utah, and I’m not a citizen of the US. Based on all that, do you think volunteering might be a good way to make connections?

Chatbot: Thanks for summarizing, Leslie. Volunteering could be an excellent option for you—it allows you to contribute to your new community, and is often a fantastic way to meet people who value inclusion. Many organizations in Utah welcome volunteers, no matter your background or citizenship status. Volunteering also sometimes leads to friendships because you’re working with others toward common goals. Would you like suggestions for specific volunteer opportunities?

Person: That would be great! I am especially interested in opportunities that connect people of different backgrounds and ages. Maybe something with cultural organizations, local charities, or helping out in schools or libraries?

Chatbot: Given your interests, you might check if the Utah Cultural Celebration Center has programs you could help with, or look into local refugee support organizations, which often search for volunteers from diverse backgrounds. Libraries and after-school programs frequently welcome volunteers as well—many are specifically looking for adults who can bring multicultural perspectives for story hours, tutoring, or cooking workshops.

Person: I love the idea of contributing multicultural perspectives, since, again, I’m not a citizen of the US and being some other race means I can bring different experiences here. Plus, living in Utah, I get questions about my background all the time. It’ll be nice to channel those conversations into something positive.

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic mindset, Leslie. Your unique background and experiences can enrich your new community, and your willingness to share is already a big step toward making strong connections. If you’d like, I can help you put together a list of organizations or events to explore, tailored to your interests and background.

Person: Yes, please! Thank you so much for your help so far. I’m feeling more positive about getting involved now, and hopefully it’ll help me feel more at home here in Utah.

Chatbot: I’m so glad to hear that. I’ll compile some resources and ideas for you. Remember, every community is better when it’s open to new voices and experiences—and you have a lot to contribute. Let me know if you have any other questions, Leslie Glaser!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_34 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cross-stitch

Cross-stitch is a form of sewing and a popular form of counted-thread embroidery in which X-shaped stitches in a tiled, raster-like pattern are used to form a picture. The stitcher counts the threads on a piece of evenweave fabric (such as linen) in each direction so that the stitches are of uniform size and appearance. This form of cross-stitch is also called counted cross-stitch in order to distinguish it from other forms of cross-stitch. Sometimes cross-stitch is done on designs printed on the fabric (stamped cross-stitch); the stitcher simply stitches over the printed pattern. Cross-stitch is often executed on easily countable fabric called aida cloth whose weave creates a plainly visible grid of squares with holes for the needle at each corner.

Fabrics used in cross-stitch include linen, aida cloth, and mixed-content fabrics called 'evenweave' such as jobelan. All cross-stitch fabrics are technically "evenweave" as the term refers to the fact that the fabric is woven to make sure that there are the same number of threads per inch in both the warp and the weft (i.e. vertically and horizontally). Fabrics are categorized by threads per inch (referred to as 'count'), which can range from 11 to 40 count.

Counted cross-stitch projects are worked from a gridded pattern called a chart and can be used on any count fabric; the count of the fabric and the number of threads per stitch determine the size of the finished stitching. For example, if a given design is stitched on a 28 count cross-stitch fabric with each cross worked over two threads, the finished stitching size is the same as it would be on a 14 count aida cloth fabric with each cross worked over one square. These methods are referred to as "2 over 2" (2 embroidery threads used to stitch over 2 fabric threads) and "1 over 1" (1 embroidery thread used to stitch over 1 fabric thread or square), respectively. There are different methods of stitching a pattern, including the cross-country method where one colour is stitched at a time, or the parking method where one block of fabric is stitched at a time and the end of the thread is "parked" at the next point the same colour occurs in the pattern.

History

Cross-stitch can be found all over the world since the middle ages. Many folk museums show examples of clothing decorated with cross-stitch, especially from continental Europe and Asia.

The cross-stitch sampler is called that because it was generally stitched by a young girl to learn how to stitch and to record alphabet and other patterns to be used in her household sewing. These samples of her stitching could be referred back to over the years. Often, motifs and initials were stitched on household items to identify their owner, or simply to decorate the otherwise-plain cloth. The earliest known cross stitch sampler made in the United States is currently housed at Pilgrim Hall in Plymouth, Massachusetts. The sampler was created by Loara Standish, daughter of Captain Myles Standish and pioneer of the Leviathan stitch, circa 1653.

Traditionally, cross-stitch was used to embellish items like household linens, tablecloths, dishcloths, and doilies (only a small portion of which would actually be embroidered, such as a border). Although there are many cross-stitchers who still employ it in this fashion, it is now increasingly popular to work the pattern on pieces of fabric and hang them on the wall for decoration. Cross-stitch is also often used to make greeting cards, pillow tops, or as inserts for box tops, coasters and trivets.

Multicoloured, shaded, painting-like patterns as we know them today are a fairly modern development, deriving from similar shaded patterns of Berlin wool work of the mid-nineteenth century. Besides designs created expressly for cross-stitch, there are software programs that convert a photograph or a fine art image into a chart suitable for stitching. One example of this is in the cross-stitched reproduction of the Sistine Chapel charted and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-36 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me before my shift. I know your schedule is packed, but it's been one of those weeks.

Doctor: Good morning! No worries at all, happy to fit you in before things get busy at the hospital. How can I help you today?

Patient: I’ve been having this persistent ache in my right wrist—no acute injury, just a dull pain that sort of comes and goes, especially after charting or after I’ve cleaned up exam rooms. It started a couple of weeks ago but’s been getting a bit worse with every shift. Sometimes by the end of the day, I feel like I barely want to hold up a clipboard.

Doctor: That sounds frustrating, especially if it’s interfering with your work. Have you noticed any swelling, numbness, or tingling? And is it worse in the mornings or after your shifts?

Patient: No swelling that I can see, and no numbness or tingling yet. It’s more of an ache—sometimes feels like it gets into my forearm too. Tends to flare up after back-to-back appointments or if I’m on rounds and doing a lot of note-taking by hand, which isn’t rare. I started to notice it after covering for one of our nurses who went on leave, so I’ve been moving more equipment than usual.

Doctor: Interesting. Given your hands-on role, you’re definitely more at risk for repetitive stress injuries. When you’re not on the floor, do you do anything else repetitive, like hobbies involving your hands, or sports?

Patient: If only! Honestly, lately my “hobby” has been reviewing case studies or prepping for grand rounds. Oh well—sometimes I’ll try to squeeze in a little guitar in my downtime, but not much in the last two months. Between my shifts and my certification renewal classes, there’s just not a lot of room for practice.

Doctor: You’re certainly busy. I take it you’re still working mostly on the acute care side? Has your schedule changed, or are you pulling more nights and weekends lately?

Patient: Still in the same department. Our team got a couple of new grads, but the turnover’s higher than we’d like. I’ve been mentoring a lot more, which is rewarding, but it means even more chart review and paperwork. And the new electronic health record is not the most ergonomic setup.

Doctor: That’s a common complaint I hear. Not to get too personal, but do you live alone or do you have anyone at home who helps out, especially when work gets demanding?

Patient: I’m on my own, for now. Haven’t really settled down—too much time at the hospital, I guess. Most days, it’s just me and whatever leftovers I scrape together for dinner.

Doctor: I hear you. That can certainly add to your stress levels as well. Have you tried any strategies—wrist supports, ice, heat, over-the-counter pain relief?

Patient: I tried a compression sleeve—one of the ones from our supply closet—but honestly, didn’t wear it consistently. Icing it after busy shifts seems to help a bit. I haven’t used any NSAIDs; just figured I’d wait and see if it settled down. I do worry a bit because my job’s so physical and if it gets worse, it could really slow me down.

Doctor: I understand. It’s important to address this early before it progresses. Given your line of work, there’s always a risk for repetitive use injuries—especially in clinical environments. Can you recall if anything changed in your work routine around the time the ache started?

Patient: Yeah, the team’s been stretched thin, so I’ve been handling more patient transports and prepping trays—stuff that isn’t usually in my wheelhouse. I’ve even found myself restocking the medication carts from time to time, though that’s not technically my domain. And the truth is, most weeks I’m lucky to get two full days off.

Doctor: That’s a lot. I’m guessing your educational background didn’t prepare you for being this much of a jack-of-all-trades.

Patient: You know, back at uni I thought I’d have a regular schedule once I graduated, but working in allied health is definitely not a nine-to-five. My program was pretty theory-heavy, but nobody talked much about how many hats you’d end up wearing.

Doctor: That’s often the way. Remind me—how many years have you been in your field now?

Patient: Let’s see… I finished my undergrad right before I turned twenty-two, so that would make it… sixteen years now. Hard to believe. I sometimes still feel like the new guy, especially with the constant changes in protocols.

Doctor: Time flies, doesn’t it? So, it sounds like this pain started after you took on the extra shifts and non-standard duties. Let’s make sure it hasn’t become something more chronic. Would you mind if I examined your wrist?

Patient: Of course, go ahead. And for what it’s worth, no history of injuries or fractures in that hand. I ran into a wall playing soccer once, but that was back during my university days—different hand, different story.

Doctor: Thank you. Does it hurt when I press here?

Patient: A little, but it’s bearable. Actually, that’s the spot that aches if I have a marathon day of discharges and admissions.

Doctor: How about here? Any pain with movement?

Patient: Some tenderness, but not sharp. Flexion’s fine, but it’s extension that feels sore. The worst is when I have to write on clipboards or type for hours at a stretch.

Doctor: That’s helpful. Based on your symptoms and history, it sounds more like a mild tendinitis from overuse rather than anything more serious. We’ll monitor it, but if it doesn’t improve, I might suggest imaging to rule out anything structural.

Patient: I can live with that. Is there anything else I should be doing besides rest and ice? I want to keep working, but I don’t want to risk making it worse. And ironically, the only time I get some “rest” is March—my birthday usually lines up perfectly with the end of winter, so I try to take a day for myself. This year I had a rare day off on a Monday for it, which felt like some sort of cosmic compensation.

Doctor: March birthdays for the win! It’s good you take some time for yourself, even if it’s just one day. In terms of treatment, continue with rest, icing, and if the pain escalates, consider using a brace. If you’re on your feet all day, just watch your ergonomics and take breaks when you can. Physical therapy might also help if it lingers.

Patient: Got it. It’s funny, my last birthday happened right around the time leap years throw our calendar for a loop, so I joke with my friends that I should get an extra day off every four years. Wouldn’t that be nice?

Doctor: Absolutely! Leverage that with your manager. By the way, outside of work, are you feeling generally well? Any other concerns with your health—energy, mood, sleep?

Patient: Health’s generally good. Stamina’s still decent—I can still keep up when the code blues come in. That said, sleep’s another story. Doing alternating evenings and mornings can leave me feeling like I’ve got perpetual jet lag. And personally, it’s just me at home, so if I need to recover after an overnight, no one’s around to complain about me sleeping in.

Doctor: Shift work definitely makes it harder. Are you getting at least six hours on most nights?

Patient: I try. Some weeks the goal post moves, you know? If I don’t crash out with a case study open in front of my face, it’s a good night. Usually, Saturday mornings I try to sleep in, but honestly, there’s always something left over from the week before—laundry, emails, the works.

Doctor: I get it—sounds familiar to many in healthcare. On that subject, have you noticed any signs of burnout? Trouble focusing, irritability, lack of motivation?

Patient: There are days when I feel the monotony creeping in, but I still find the work meaningful—especially when we get to help someone recover, or when a patient remembers my name after being transferred out. That keeps me going. Plus, I’m not managing any little ones or a partner at home right now, so everything’s on my schedule.

Doctor: Finding satisfaction in the work is crucial. And being on your own does give you a certain flexibility, though I know it can feel isolating. Do you have friends or family you can turn to on tough days?

Patient: My folks are still in town, so we chat regularly. I’ve got a few former classmates from my undergrad cohort I meet up with for dinner every so often. None of them went into allied health—most took jobs in tech—so they’re always amused by my hospital stories. Helps to have someone to vent to, especially over a pint. But there’s no wedding pictures on my walls or anyone setting a plus-one for the holidays, if you know what I mean.

Doctor: That kind of independence isn’t a bad thing. And it’s good you have support close by. Circling back to your wrist, the best advice is to keep monitoring it, manage your workload when possible, and use supports if it flares. If it’s not better in a month, let’s try a referral for therapy. In the meantime, try to set aside those scheduled guitar sessions again—a little relaxation goes a long way.

Patient: Will do. I appreciate the advice, and I’ll aim for some proper downtime after the next stretch of shifts. And I’ll start being more mindful of breaks at work—even if I have to remind myself, “don’t be a hero.”

Doctor: Wise words! One more quick thing—since you’re around hospitals so much, I presume your vaccinations are up to date?

Patient: Oh, definitely. Occupational health’s strict about it. Had my boosters at the last hospital drive, and I’m compliant across the board—wouldn’t want to put patients or myself at risk. That’s one thing my bachelor’s-prep program hammered into us: stay on top of the basics.

Doctor: Excellent. Well, unless anything else is bothering you, I think we have a plan. If you notice your symptoms worsen or start having numbness or tingling, call me sooner. Otherwise, I hope your next birthday comes with an actual weekend off, not just a Monday this time!

Patient: Me too! Maybe one day I’ll mark it with more than just takeout and a call from my parents—but for now, saving up vacation time is its own reward. Thanks again for squeezing me in, doc. I’ll see you at the next checkup, if not sooner.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Take care, stay well, and good luck with those double shifts.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_73 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Glossary of education terms (A–C)

This glossary of education-related terms is based on how they commonly are used in Wikipedia articles.  This article contains terms starting with A – C.  Select a letter from the table of contents to find terms on other articles.

0-9
.edu
"dot-edu"
 The generic top-level domain for educational institutions, primarily those in the United States. Created in January 1985 as one of the first top-level domains, .edu was originally intended for educational institutions anywhere in the world. With few exceptions, however, only those in the United States registered such domains, while educational institutions in other countries usually used domain names under the appropriate country code TLD.

A

Academia A  collective term for the scientific and cultural community engaged in higher education and research, taken as a whole.  The word comes from the akademeia just outside ancient Athens, where the gymnasium was made famous by Plato as a center of learning.
Academic degree A degree is any of a wide range of status levels conferred by institutions of higher education, such as universities, normally as the result of successfully completing a program of study.
Academic dress  Traditional clothing worn specifically in academic settings. It is more commonly seen nowadays only at graduation ceremonies, but in former times academic dress was, and to a lesser extent in many ancient universities still is, worn on a daily basis.
Academic institution An educational institution dedicated to higher education and research, which grants academic degrees.
Academic publishing Describes a system of publishing that is necessary in order for academic scholars to review work and make it available for a wider audience.  The "system," which is probably disorganized enough not to merit the title, varies widely by field, and is also always changing, if often slowly.  Most academic work is published in journal article or book form.
Active learning A process whereby learners are actively engaged in the learning process, rather than "passively" absorbing lectures.  Active learning involves reading, writing, discussion, and engagement in solving problems, analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. Active learning often involves cooperative learning.
Activity theory (AT) A Soviet psychological meta-theory, paradigm, or framework, with its roots in socio-cultural approach. Its founders were Alexei Nikolaevich Leontyev, and S. L. Rubinshtein (1889–1960). It became one of the major psychological approaches in the former USSR, being widely used in both theoretical and applied psychology, in areas such as the education, training, ergonomics, and work psychology.
Additional Support Needs In Scotland, children who require some additional support to remove barriers to learning in any respect are deemed to have Additional Support Needs.  This definition abolished the previously used term Special Educational Needs and was set out in the 2004 Additional Support for Learning Act.
Adult education The practice of teaching and educating adults.  This is often done in the workplace, or through 'extension' or 'continuing education' courses at secondary schools, or at a College or University.  The practice is also often referred to as 'Training and Development'.  It has also been referred to as andragogy (to distinguish it from pedagogy).
Educating adults differs from educating children in several ways.  One of the most important differences is that adults have accumulated knowledge and experience which can either add value to a learning experience or hinder it.
Adultism A predisposition towards adults, which some see as biased against children, youth, and all young people who aren't addressed or viewed as adults. Adultism is popularly used to describe any discrimination against young people, and is distinguished from ageism, which is simply prejudice on the grounds of age; not specifically against youth.
Advanced Placement Program  A United States and Canada-based program that offers...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-93 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi, can I ask you something? My name is Lucas, and my birthday is 2 August 2017. I live in California, actually at 27499 Ynez Rd, Temecula, CA 92591.

Chatbot: Hello Lucas! It’s nice to meet you. What would you like to ask? I’ll do my best to help answer your questions.

Person: Thanks! Well, I just finished fourth grade, and I want advice for fun things I can do during summer break around Temecula. Also, I’m Chinese and sometimes my family looks for activities where we can meet other Chinese families.

Chatbot: That’s great you’ve finished grade 4! In Temecula, there are many kid-friendly things to try. Old Town Temecula has festivals and cool shops. The Margarita Community Park is nice for outdoor play. As for meeting other Chinese families, sometimes community centers or cultural associations hold Chinese cultural events or language classes—maybe your parents would be interested to take you to one? Are there any particular activities you really enjoy, like sports, crafts, or reading?

Person: I like reading mostly, and I just got into drawing. I don’t have a job right now because I’m less than 16 years old, and I’ve never worked. My parents work though. Is there a library near 27499 Ynez Rd, Temecula, CA 92591?

Chatbot: Absolutely, since you’re not working yet, summer is a perfect time to read and draw! The Ronald H. Roberts Temecula Public Library is quite close to you—it’s actually at 30600 Pauba Rd. They have a summer reading program for kids your age, and lots of books and comics. They might also have art workshops or drawing events during summer breaks. Have you visited this library before?

Person: I went there once on a field trip when I was in grade 3, but I don’t go a lot. It’s kind of far from where I live, but maybe my parents can drive me sometimes. Is it okay to go by myself if I’m still only 6 years old? Since my date of birth is 2 August 2017, I’ll be 7 soon.

Chatbot: You’re right, since your date of birth is 2 August 2017, you’ll be turning 7 soon! Most libraries recommend kids your age visit with an adult or an older sibling. It’s definitely safest, especially since you live at 27499 Ynez Rd and the library isn’t walking distance. Maybe you can ask your parents to set up regular visits. They might also enjoy seeing the library!

Person: Yeah I can ask them. Since I’m Chinese, sometimes I feel left out when the other kids speak Spanish. Are there books at that library in Chinese, or maybe story times in other languages besides English and Spanish?

Chatbot: The library in Temecula has a world languages section, and they usually offer children’s books in Chinese. Sometimes, around Lunar New Year or other holidays, they organize storytimes in different languages, including Mandarin. You could ask a librarian about this, or even suggest more programs for Chinese kids and families. They’re usually happy to help!

Person: That’s good to know. My mom likes when I learn about being Chinese, but she’s always busy with work, since I don’t have any occupation and she works long hours. What’s a good way for me to make friends my age from Chinese families here in California?

Chatbot: California, especially near Temecula, has many activities and groups for kids from different backgrounds. Some ideas: see if there’s a Chinese cultural club or language school nearby. These often meet on weekends and have fun events for kids your age. Libraries and community centers sometimes offer Chinese story hours, craft days or calligraphy workshops. Summer camps with cultural themes are also a great way to make new friends who share your background and interests. Maybe you can ask your mom to search for events in your area?

Person: I’ll try asking her. Since I live in California, sometimes my friends from out of state ask if it’s always sunny and warm at 27499 Ynez Rd, Temecula, CA 92591. I guess they think all of California is by the beach! But Temecula is more like wine country, right?

Chatbot: You’re absolutely right! While California is known for its beaches, Temecula is famous for its wineries and beautiful hot, sunny weather. It’s not directly on the coast, but it mostly has warm temperatures—great for being outdoors in summer, but don’t forget sunscreen! If you like hiking, the Santa Rosa Plateau is nearby and has nice trails to explore with your family.

Person: Maybe I can draw pictures of vineyards and hills for practice. I like to sketch landscapes. I want to show my teacher next year what I did during break. Is that a good idea for someone finishing grade 4?

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic idea, Lucas! Drawing your local scenery is a creative way to remember your summer and share it with your teacher. Since you’ve finished grade 4, your teacher and classmates will love to see your art—maybe you could even create a little booklet about Temecula and your favorite places, like 27499 Ynez Rd (your house!), the library, and any new places you explore.

Person: That sounds really fun. Maybe I can include a page about my birthday on 2 August 2017 and talk about what we do on my birthday each year. Sometimes we go all the way to LA to eat special Chinese food.

Chatbot: That would be wonderful, and it’s a great link to your culture and identity. You could decorate that page with images of your favorite Chinese dishes or family traditions. Including your birthday, 2 August 2017, helps tell your story. Teachers love projects that share personal experiences. If you want, I can help you brainstorm more ideas for your booklet!

Person: Can you give me three more ideas for what to add? Maybe something that’s special for someone who’s Chinese, finishing grade 4, and lives at 27499 Ynez Rd, Temecula, CA 92591 in California?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Here are three ideas:  
1. A page about celebrating Chinese holidays with your family in California—describe decorations, food, and how you combine traditions.  
2. A “map” of your neighborhood around 27499 Ynez Rd, maybe labeling places that are important to you, like your school, your favorite park, and places your family shops—show what’s unique to Temecula.  
3. A section about your favorite book or comic from the library, especially one in Chinese or about Chinese culture—write why you like it and draw your favorite scene!

Person: Thanks! This is so helpful. I really liked talking to you. I’m excited to work on my summer booklet and maybe make new friends who are also Chinese here in California.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Lucas! I’m glad I could help. Enjoy your summer break, your art, and your adventures around Temecula. Happy early birthday for 2 August 2017! If you ever want more ideas or just want to chat, I’m here for you.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_269 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Malacosteus niger

Malacosteus niger, commonly known as the black dragon fish, is a species of deep-sea fish. Some additional common names for this species include: northern stoplight loosejaw, lightless loosejaw, black loosejaw, and black hinged-head. It belongs to the family Stomiidae, or dragonfishes. It is among the top predators of the open mesopelagic zone. M. niger is a circumglobal species, which means that it inhabits waters ranging from the tropics to the subarctics. Not many studies have been conducted on its feeding habits, but recent research suggests that M. niger primarily feed on calanoid copepods which is a form of zooplankton. Indeed, it appears that M. niger primarily prey on zooplankton despite its apparent morphological adaptations for the consumption of relatively large prey. Another unique adaptation for this species is its ability to produce both red and blue bioluminescence. Most mesopelagic species aren't capable of producing red bioluminescence. This is advantageous because most other species cannot perceive red light, therefore allowing M. niger to camouflage part of itself to its prey and predators.

Anatomy and physiology

Visual system 
Malacosteus niger has yellow lenses that are believed to improve the functionality of the perception of their red bioluminescence. M. niger has adapted a retinal structure of "ten layer elements," similar to those found in surface-level species and other shallow-water living species — which also perceive red light. Its retina is made up entirely of rods and no cones, with rhodopsin/porphyropsin pairs and a single opsin bound to some of its photoreceptors, which provide visual sensitivity up to 517-541 nm (this falls within the wavelength of red light). Most deep-sea fish have a single visual pigment maximally sensitive at short wavelengths, approximately matching the spectrum of both downwelling sunlight and bioluminescence. For comparison, other red light producing stomiids, such as Aristostomias and Pachystostomias, have a third pigment which allows them to perceive light up to 588 nm and 595 nm respectively. The yellow lens reduce the amount of blue light that reaches the retina and increases sensitivity to longer wavelengths, which benefits M. niger and its red bioluminescence.

Yellow lens have also been identified in Echiostoma, which also produces red bioluminescence.

Morphology 

Malacosteus niger has one of the largest relative gapes of any fish with the lower jaw being approximately one-quarter of the fishes length (Figure A). It has enlarged fangs the curve back into its mouth to prevent its prey from escaping its grip (Figure B). M. nigers is unique in that it does not contain gill rakers or gill teeth which is typically found in carnivorious fish species (Figure C). The anterior vertebrae appear to be unossified which enables the fish to “throw back its head” to take on relatively large prey. Lastly, M. nigers lacks an ethinoid membrane (no “floor” in its mouth) which allows for it to consume bigger prey species (Figure D). (Refer to image on right hand side of webpage). The lack of a floor of the oral cavity allows for decreased resistive forces which allows M. niger to close its mouth rapidly and easily trap its prey. This adaptation also minimizes the amount of energy required for M. niger to close its mouth, thus permitting it to quickly latch onto fast-swimming prey.

The postorbital photophore in this species is larger than in M. australis. It also differs in lateral photophore count, as well as in morphological characters. The maximum known length is 25.6 cm (10.1 in). Its specific epithet niger is Latin for "black".

Ecological and geographical distribution 
Malacosteus niger is a circumglobal species and has a large geographic range. It can typically be found from the Arctic latitudes of 66° North and from 30° South in the Southern Hemisphere. While M. nigers is found throughout the world, it appears to be widely distributed and found often in the Eastern...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_252 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dolly (trailer)

A dolly is an unpowered vehicle designed for connection to a tractor unit, truck or prime mover vehicle with strong traction power.

United States

Classification by axle configuration

There are several types of dolly bogie:

 Full trailer - 2 axle (4 wheels), with a draw bar which also controls the trailer's front axle steering. The draw bar does not take load of the full trailer. Heavy full trailer needs to have its own brakes remotely controlled by the prime mover vehicle.
 Semi-trailer - 1 axle (2 wheels), without the front axle but have a landing gear. Large semi-trailer of truck size is designed for connection via the fifth wheel on the tractor unit or the semi-trailer truck. Small semi-trailer such as travel trailer and boat trailer is designed for connection via a tow hitch of a passenger vehicle. Either the fifth wheel or the tow hitch takes up to half the load of the semi-trailer.
 Road train - special large dolly bogie equipped with a fifth wheel for further connection by the gooseneck type drawbar of another similar dolly and form a road train. The last dolly in a road train needs its own rear lights, brakes remotely controlled by the prime mover vehicle, and registration plate.
 Tow dolly - a semi-trailer designed as automobile rescue equipment. It is designed to couple to the concerned automobile's powered wheel, i.e. the front wheel of a Front-wheel drive automobile, or the rear wheel of a rear-wheel drive automobile, by locking the powered wheels onto the tow dolly's tray. The tow dolly is tow hitch connected to a tractor or truck. Tow dollies are legal in all 50 US states and Canada. In the U.S. and Canada brakes are required on any loaded car tow dolly.

Classification by coupling configuration

There are two basic types:
 Converter dolly, equipped with between one and three axles and designed to connect to a towbar on the rear of the truck or trailer in front. There are two variants of this:
 An A-dolly has a single drawbar with a centred coupling.
 A C-dolly has two separate couplings side-by-side.
 Low loader dolly, equipped with a gooseneck type drawbar that attaches to the fifth wheel coupling on the rear of a prime mover to distribute the mass on the fifth wheel on the dolly between the prime mover and the wheels of the dolly. These are predominantly fitted with two axles.

Australia
Converter dollies are used in road trains in Australia, most commonly with two or three axles and a hinged drawbar.  They are also frequently referred to as road train dollies.

The C-dolly design is not allowed in Australia, as it prevents articulation between the dolly wheels and the axles of the truck or trailer in front of the dolly. Australian rules require articulation between axle groups.

Low-loader dollies – which present a kingpin rather than a drawbar coupling – are used with many low loaders to allow heavy cargo to be carried without overloading the wheels of the prime mover or the low loader.

Airport dolly 

Dollies are used for the transportation of loose baggages, oversized bags, mail bags, loose cargo carton boxes, etc. between an aircraft and the terminal or sorting facility. In the US, these dollies are called baggage carts, but in Europe baggage cart means baggage trolleys used by individual passengers.

See also

 Axle track
 Boat dolly
 Flatbed trolley
 Road train
 Roll trailer
 Wheelbase

References

External links 
 Diagrams of A-dolly & C-dolly.
 Evaluation of dollies, University of Michigan
 Legal definition of a dolly in Oregon, USA
 Images of trailer dollies

Trucks
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-29 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Sorry if I seem a little disorganized today—I’ve got a lot on my mind.

Doctor: That’s perfectly alright. Let’s take things one step at a time. What brings you in today?

Patient: I’ve been having these weird headaches on and off for a few weeks now. They’re not terrible, but they’re definitely not normal for me. I was hoping you could help me figure out what’s going on.

Doctor: Can you tell me more about these headaches? When did you first notice them?

Patient: I’d say maybe three weeks ago? Around the second week that I—well, let’s just say my routine changed a bit. I started feeling them behind my eyes and sometimes at my temples, mostly late afternoons.

Doctor: Any vision changes, nausea, sensitivity to light, or anything like that?

Patient: No nausea, but my eyes feel tired, almost like when I used to cram for end-of-term exams back in college. Now they just get heavy toward the end of the day.

Doctor: Have you been getting enough sleep?

Patient: Trying to, but honestly, since my schedule opened up, everything’s a bit off. I used to have a pretty set daily agenda, roll call and all, but nowadays it’s out the window. Some nights I sleep eight hours, some nights it’s more like five.

Doctor: When you say your routine changed, do you mean you’re working from home now or something else?

Patient: It’s more like… I’m still tied to my workplace, but I’m not actually going in right now. It’s not exactly leave, but I’m not on base or anything like that at the moment.

Doctor: Understood. Sometimes a change in daily activity, especially if your work involves a particular structure, can affect your sleep and stress levels. Have you noticed feeling more stressed or anxious lately?

Patient: Maybe a bit. There’s a lot of paperwork hanging over me. Plus, dealing with things back home isn't easy these days. Lots of calls with the lawyer, which doesn’t help my stress level.

Doctor: I see. Are you currently taking any medications or supplements?

Patient: Just a multivitamin and the occasional ibuprofen when the headaches get a bit much. Used to be pretty routine about meds, but without that morning check, I sometimes forget. Old habits die hard, but new ones are harder to form.

Doctor: Have you recently had any major life changes—family, relationships, or anything like that?

Patient: Yeah, I guess you could say life took a few turns. It’s just me at home now. Used to be two of us, but that changed earlier this year, officially. We’re trying to keep things amicable for our son’s sake.

Doctor: That sounds difficult. Are you in contact with your son regularly?

Patient: As much as I can. Weekends and phone calls mostly, since he’s staying with his mom for now. We’re figuring out what works.

Doctor: Family transitions can certainly affect your health. Have you had any changes in appetite or weight?

Patient: Maybe lost a few pounds, but nothing dramatic. I’m still eating, just not as much as when I was at the mess hall. Cooking for one isn’t nearly as exciting.

Doctor: Well, that’s understandable. How about physical activity? Are you able to keep up with your usual fitness routine?

Patient: Trying to, but it’s not the same jogging around my neighborhood as it was running with my squad. Motivation’s a bit lower these days, especially without PT first thing in the morning.

Doctor: Social support and regular exercise make a big difference. It’s good that you’re still trying. Besides the headaches, anything else concern you? Dizziness, memory issues, or trouble focusing?

Patient: I’d say my focus is a little off, but I think that’s just from being at loose ends. Not used to this much downtime. When I had classes to go to or duty to report for, I woke up each morning with a plan. Now, it’s different. Not quite sure what to do with myself a lot of the time.

Doctor: That’s completely understandable, especially after spending so much time in an environment where discipline and routine are built in. Would you say being out of your everyday environment is making it harder to cope or affecting your mood?

Patient: Yeah, I think so. Back in training, you’re always busy—there’s no time to sit around thinking. Now, I’ve got all this time and not much to structure it. Picks at you, especially after everything that happened at home.

Doctor: How are you sleeping? Any trouble falling or staying asleep, or are you waking up feeling rested?

Patient: I fall asleep okay most nights, but I wake up before my alarm, even though I don’t have anywhere to be. That always happened when I was cramming back in college, too.

Doctor: Any snoring or night sweats that you or anyone else has noticed?

Patient: Not that I know of. My place is quiet these days. On the rare nights my son visits, he doesn’t complain.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Let’s circle back to the headaches—you mentioned they come on later in the day, especially since your routine changed. Can you think of anything else that’s different—more screen time, changes in caffeine intake, different environment?

Patient: Yeah, I’ve been messing around online a lot more. Catching up on shows and video calling family back home, especially the folks on the main island. Before, work kept me too busy for that. I tend to make a strong coffee or two to power through the afternoons, which I didn’t always do back on base.

Doctor: Sometimes increased screen time and caffeine can contribute to headaches. Try taking regular eye breaks and see if cutting back on the late-day coffee helps.

Patient: I guess that makes sense. I remember in school, if I was staring at papers or screens too long, I’d get the same tired-eye feeling.

Doctor: Are you feeling supported at the moment? Any community resources or support groups you’re involved with?

Patient: I chat online with some of my old classmates and buddies from my last post. It’s nice to swap stories, even if it’s just about how much better the weather is back where I grew up compared to the Midwest.

Doctor: Staying connected with people from your past is important, especially if they share similar experiences. It sounds like you’ve moved around a lot. Where did you grow up?

Patient: Spent my first couple decades out where the atlantic meets the Caribbean. Beach, palm trees—nothing at all like Illinois.

Doctor: That’s a beautiful place to call home. Have you visited recently?

Patient: Not for a while—the last trip was before things got complicated at home and before I got shipped out again. Nowadays, I just keep in touch with relatives by phone, especially during the festival seasons. That’s when everyone gets together and cooks up a storm.

Doctor: Maintaining those traditions is so important for mental health. Do you have plans to go back soon?

Patient: Maybe once things settle down and work gives me the green light. Right now, travel’s off-limits until I get the all-clear. My orders are pretty clear about that. Not allowed to stray too far from home base—well, home, I guess, since I’m not officially back at my post yet.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re balancing quite a few things. Is the uncertainty about your current work status bothering you?

Patient: Yeah, it’s weird. I’m used to knowing my orders for the day, but for now, I’ve just got to keep checking the system to find out when I’m getting called back in. My paycheck’s landing, but I haven’t clocked in for a while.

Doctor: That limbo can be unsettling. How are you handling your finances with this new arrangement?

Patient: It’s alright for now. The steady pay helps. And since I’m not working full hours, I’ve picked up a few online courses—just trying to learn new things, keep my mind sharp. Figured maybe someday I’ll finish what I started decades ago.

Doctor: That’s a good way to use your free time. Did you enjoy school back then?

Patient: Yeah, I liked it more than I thought I would. Took a bunch of courses after high school, mostly in the evenings. Only stopped when work picked up and made fitting in classes tough. I keep thinking I’ll go back and get my diploma, but somehow it just never happens. You know—life gets in the way.

Doctor: Learning is always a good pursuit. And being proactive about your mental health is equally important. Have you talked to anyone, professionally or otherwise, about how you’re feeling these days?

Patient: I tried once, at the counselors’ office on base, but it was always busy—everyone’s got their own troubles. I haven’t tried off-base yet. Feels strange, reaching out now that my command isn’t directly involved.

Doctor: We can connect you to some resources, if you’re open to it. Sometimes working with a counselor outside of a military environment can be helpful, especially when you’re dealing with personal as well as work transitions.

Patient: Might be worth a shot. I don’t want these headaches turning into a bigger problem. And honestly, it’d be nice to talk to someone who doesn’t know my whole history already.

Doctor: Absolutely. We’ll make sure you leave here with some recommendations. In the meantime, let’s get back to managing your headaches. Besides caffeine and screen time, any tension in the neck or shoulders?

Patient: Plenty. I guess all that sitting around, checking emails and staring at my phone, isn’t doing my posture any favors. Used to have a sergeant who nagged us about slouching all the time.

Doctor: Some basic stretches and maybe a short daily walk can help. Do you have access to outdoor space?

Patient: Yeah, there’s a park nearby. Not quite the same as jogging along the beach back home, but it’s peaceful.

Doctor: Give it a try if you can. The fresh air and movement can make a big difference. I want to ask, have you had any vision checks recently?

Patient: Not since before I got redeployed. The last time was right before we shipped out. Everything was fine, but I probably should schedule another one now.

Doctor: With the increase in screen time and headaches, it’d be a good idea. I can refer you to an optometrist.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. I should also mention, sometimes I get a flash of my ex’s name when my phone dings, and that tight feeling in my chest comes back. I know things ended for a reason, but it’s still raw.

Doctor: That’s completely normal, especially given the changes you’ve gone through. Grieving after a relationship ends can take time. Do you have family close by for support?

Patient: My parents are still back on the island, and my siblings are scattered—one’s out in California, another’s in Atlanta. We check in around big holidays—especially that one in January where everybody hits the street and dances until morning.

Doctor: Those cultural traditions are powerful reminders of our roots. It’s important to keep those connections going. How about friends here, outside of work connections?

Patient: A few—mostly folks from my unit, or people I met through night classes. We get together for football or have a drink when everyone’s on leave.

Doctor: Building that social network is important. If you find the headaches aren’t improving with lifestyle tweaks or if you develop new symptoms, let me know immediately. I’d also like you to consider journaling—writing about your thoughts or worries can help process some of the stress.

Patient: I could try that. Writing helped back in college, even if it was just organizing notes for class. Maybe it’ll help clear my head these days, too.

Doctor: Before we wrap up, is there anything else you think I should know? Any specific health concerns you want to address today?

Patient: Not really. Just want to make sure I’m on top of whatever this is. I know we’re supposed to be tough, but sometimes the aches build up when you’ve got too much time to think.

Doctor: Emotional health is as important as anything else, especially after changes in routine, job status, and home life. I’ll print out some info on headache management and a few numbers for counseling services. Let’s schedule that vision check, and don’t hesitate to reach out if anything worsens.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. Glad I came in.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Take care, and remember—you’re not alone in this, even if it feels that way sometimes.

Patient: Will do. I’ll give those stretches a try, cut back on the coffee, and check in if things don’t get better.

Doctor: Sounds like a good plan. See you at your follow-up.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_168 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Economic production quantity

The economic production quantity model (also known as the EPQ model) determines the quantity a company or retailer should order to minimize the total inventory costs by balancing the inventory holding cost and average fixed ordering cost. The EPQ model was developed by E.W. Taft in 1918. 
This method is an extension of the economic order quantity model (also known as the EOQ model). The difference between these two methods is that the EPQ model assumes the company will produce its own quantity or the parts are going to be shipped to the company while they are being produced, therefore the orders are available or received in an incremental manner while the products are being produced. While the EOQ model assumes the order quantity arrives complete and immediately after ordering, meaning that the parts are produced by another company and are ready to be shipped when the order is placed. 
 
In some literature, "economic manufacturing quantity" model (EMQ) is used for "economic production quantity" model (EPQ). Similar to the EOQ model, EPQ is a single product lot scheduling method. A multiproduct extension to these models is called product cycling problem.

Overview
EPQ only applies where the demand for a product is constant over the year and that each new order is delivered/produced incrementally when the inventory reaches zero. There is a fixed cost charged for each order placed, regardless of the number of units ordered. There is also a holding or storage cost for each unit held in storage (sometimes expressed as a percentage of the purchase cost of the item).

We want to determine the optimal number of units of the product to order so that we minimize the total cost associated with the purchase, delivery and storage of the product

The required parameters to the solution are the total demand for the year, the purchase cost for each item, the fixed cost to place the order and the storage cost for each item per year. Note that the number of times an order is placed will also affect the total cost, however, this number can be determined from the other parameters

Assumptions 
 Demand for items from inventory is continuous and at a constant rate
 Production runs to replenish inventory are made at regular intervals
 During a production run, the production of items is continuous and at a constant rate
 Production set-up/ordering cost is fixed (independent of quantity produced)
 The lead time is fixed
 The purchase price of the item is constant, i.e. no discount is available
 The replenishment is made incrementally

Variables 
 K = ordering/setup cost per production run
 D = yearly demand rate
 h = yearly holding cost per product
 t = cycle length
 P = yearly production rate
 
 Q = order quantity
 S = success by the method.

Total cost function and derivation of EPQ formula 

 Holding Cost per Year  =  

Where  is the average inventory level, and  is the average holding cost. Therefore, multiplying these two results in the holding cost per year.

 Ordering Cost per Year  =   

Where  are the orders placed in a year, multiplied by K results in the ordering cost per year.

We can notice from the equations above that the total ordering cost decreases as the production quantity increases. Inversely, the total holding cost increases as the production quantity increases. Therefore, in order to get the optimal production quantity we need to set holding cost per year equal to ordering cost per year and solve for quantity (Q), which is the EPQ formula mentioned below. Ordering this quantity will result in the lowest total inventory cost per year.

Relevant formulas 

Average holding cost per unit time:
 

Average ordering and holding cost as a function of time:

See also 

 Reorder point
 Safety stock
 Infinite fill rate for the part being produced: Economic order quantity
 Demand is random, continuous replenishment: Base stock model
 Demand varies over time: Dynamic lot size model
 Several products produced on the same machine: Economic...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_51 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Source code escrow

Source code escrow is the deposit of the source code of software with a third-party escrow agent. Escrow is typically requested by a party licensing software (the licensee), to ensure maintenance of the software instead of abandonment or orphaning. The software's source code is released to the licensee if the licensor files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to maintain and update the software as promised in the software license agreement.

Necessity of escrow
As the continued operation and maintenance of custom software is critical to many companies, they usually desire to make sure that it continues even if the licensor becomes unable to do so, such as because of bankruptcy. This is most easily achieved by obtaining a copy of the up-to-date source code. The licensor, however, will often be unwilling to agree to this, as the source code will generally represent one of their most closely guarded trade secrets.

As a solution to this conflict of interest, source code escrow ensures that the licensee obtains access to the source code only when the maintenance of the software cannot otherwise be assured, as defined in contractually agreed-upon conditions.

Escrow agreements
Source code escrow takes place in a contractual relationship, formalized in a source code escrow agreement, between at least three parties:
 one or several licensors,
 one or several licensees,
 the escrow agent.

The service provided by the escrow agent – generally a business dedicated to that purpose and independent from either party – consists principally in taking custody of the source code from the licensor and releasing it to the licensee only if the conditions specified in the escrow agreement are met.

Source code escrow agreements provide for the following:
 They specify the subject and scope of the escrow. This is generally the source code of a specific software, accompanied by everything that the licensee requires to independently maintain the software, such as documentation, software tools or specialized hardware.
 They oblige the licensor to put updated versions of the software in escrow in specific intervals.
 They specify the conditions that must be met for the agent to release the source code to the licensee. Typical conditions include the bankruptcy of the licensor, the cancellation of a software development project or the express unwillingness of the licensor to fulfil his contractual maintenance obligations. Because it is often important to the licensee that the code be released as soon as possible once the conditions are met, the conditions tend to be worded as plainly and unambiguously as possible.
 They circumscribe the rights obtained by the licensee with respect to the source code after the release of the software. These rights are generally limited and may include the right to modify the source code for the purpose of fixing errors, or the right to continue independent development of the software.
 They specify the services provided by the escrow agent beyond a simple custody of the source code. Specialised agents may, for instance, verify that the source code storage media is readable, or even build the software based on the source code, verifying that its features match the binary version used by the licensee.
 They may provide that non-compete clauses in the licence agreement, such as any that prohibit the licensee from employing the licensor's employees, are void in the event of the release conditions being met, enabling the licensee to acquire the know-how required for the maintenance of the software.
 They also provide for the fees due to the escrow agent for his services.

Whether a source code escrow agreement is entered into at all, and who bears its costs, is subject to agreement between the licensor and the licensee. Software license agreements often provide for a right of the licensee to demand that the source code be put into escrow, or to join an existing escrow agreement.

Bankruptcy laws may interfere with the execution...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-98 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, happy to help. What brings you in?

Patient: Well, I was hoping to get a general check-up. My job has been keeping me busy, but I’m not actually at work right now, so I wanted to use the chance to get everything checked over.

Doctor: That sounds like a good idea. You mentioned your job—is there anything in your workplace or your routine that’s been affecting your health or wellbeing recently?

Patient: I am civilian employed, but not currently at work as I mentioned. I do desk work mostly, which can be a bit hard on my back and shoulders. Lately, I’ve been feeling a bit of soreness there. Otherwise, I think I’m managing alright.

Doctor: Are you getting up and moving around at work, or is it long stretches of sitting at the desk?

Patient: Mostly long stretches, I’m afraid. And since I live in Alaska, sometimes it’s hard to get outside for a walk when the weather isn’t great.

Doctor: Understandable, the Alaskan winters can be especially harsh. I'll give you some advice for stretches and ways to manage the soreness in your back and shoulders. Outside of work, how are things at home? Any stress or changes in your personal life?

Patient: Well, I should mention that I'm widowed. It’s been a couple of years now, but sometimes it still hits me, especially during quiet evenings at home.

Doctor: I’m very sorry for your loss. Grief can have a lasting impact and often resurfaces in unexpected ways. Have you been able to talk to friends or family, or anyone professionally, about how you’re feeling?

Patient: Mostly friends and relatives. My community has been supportive, but I haven’t spoken to anyone professionally about it. Being Alaskan Athabascan, family connections are really important for me, so that’s been helpful.

Doctor: I’m glad you have a support system. If sometime you’re interested in speaking with a counselor or joining a support group, please let me know. Mental health is crucial, just like physical health. Aside from that, any new or ongoing physical symptoms? Headaches, trouble sleeping, appetite changes, or anything else you wanted to mention?

Patient: My sleep has been a bit off lately. I sometimes wake up in the night and have trouble getting back to sleep. I wonder if it's the long nights here in Alaska affecting my rhythm. Nothing else major though, aside from the back and shoulder discomfort.

Doctor: It’s quite common for people living in Alaska to experience sleep disturbances, particularly in the winter months. The shorter days and longer nights can really disrupt your sleep cycle. I can give you some practical tips for better sleep, if you’d like.

Patient: That would be great. I think my sleep has a big effect on my energy during the day.

Doctor: Certainly. Let me make a note here—by the way, could you confirm your contact details for our records? Is (907) 553-2399 still the best number for you?

Patient: Yes, that’s correct. That’s my phone number.

Doctor: Thank you. And just to confirm for our records, you said you were born in the US, right?

Patient: Yes, I was born in the US.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. Do you have any allergies to medications or foods that I should be aware of, or anything that’s changed in your medical history since your last visit?

Patient: No new allergies. I still avoid shellfish, but that’s just a preference from back home. My medical history hasn’t changed. I think you have most of it already. 

Doctor: Great, thank you for confirming. Any trouble with your vision, hearing, or dizziness lately?

Patient: No, everything seems alright there. My vision is good—I wear glasses for reading sometimes, but that’s about it.

Doctor: Good to hear. And with your work at the desk, we already talked about stretching—do you have access to ergonomic equipment like a supportive chair or adjustable desk?

Patient: I have a decent chair, but no adjustable desk yet. I could ask my workplace to consider it. Since I’m with a job but not actually at work right now, maybe it’s a good time to check into that.

Doctor: That would be wise. An ergonomic workstation can really help prevent back and neck pain. I can give you an information sheet to share with your employer if you’d like.

Patient: That would be really helpful, thank you.

Doctor: Of course. So, to recap: you’re civilian employed, but currently not working; you’re widowed; your race is listed as Alaskan Athabascan; and you live here in Alaska—do you live somewhere close to the city?

Patient: Yes, I do live in Alaska, a bit outside the main city area. It’s quieter there, which I prefer, but a little more of a drive to get places.

Doctor: Alaska has its unique challenges for healthcare, but you seem to be managing well. As part of your check-up, we’ll do some blood work, check blood pressure, and make sure everything is in order. Any last concerns you wanted to discuss or questions for me?

Patient: No, nothing else comes to mind right now. I appreciate the time and the advice, especially for managing my sleep and back pain.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. If you have any issues before your next visit, just give us a call at the office or you can reach me through your patient portal. And just double-checking—contact number is (907) 553-2399, correct?

Patient: That’s right, (907) 553-2399. Thank you, Doctor.

Doctor: Thank you! Take care, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you need anything else. We’ll follow up once your results are in, and in the meantime, focus on those stretches and sleep tips.

Patient: Will do. Have a good day.

Doctor: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_258 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# TCP sequence prediction attack

A TCP sequence prediction attack is an attempt to predict the sequence number used to identify the packets in a TCP connection, which can be used to counterfeit packets.

The attacker hopes to correctly guess the sequence number to be used by the sending host. If they can do this, they will be able to send counterfeit packets to the receiving host which will seem to originate from the sending host, even though the counterfeit packets may in fact originate from some third host controlled by the attacker. One possible way for this to occur is for the attacker to listen to the conversation occurring between the trusted hosts, and then to issue packets using the same source IP address. By monitoring the traffic before an attack is mounted, the malicious host can figure out the correct sequence number. After the IP address and the correct sequence number are known, it is basically a race between the attacker and the trusted host to get the correct packet sent. One common way for the attacker to send it first is to launch another attack on the trusted host, such as a denial-of-service attack. Once the attacker has control over the connection, they are able to send counterfeit packets without getting a response.

If an attacker can cause delivery of counterfeit packets of this sort, they may be able to cause various sorts of mischief, including the injection into an existing TCP connection of data of the attacker's choosing, and the premature closure of an existing TCP connection by the injection of counterfeit packets with the RST bit set, a TCP reset attack.

Theoretically, other information such as timing differences or information from lower protocol layers could allow the receiving host to distinguish authentic TCP packets from the sending host and counterfeit TCP packets with the correct sequence number sent by the attacker. If such other information is available to the receiving host, if the attacker can also fake that other information, and if the receiving host gathers and uses the information correctly, then the receiving host may be fairly immune to TCP sequence prediction attacks. Usually, this is not the case, so the TCP sequence number is the primary means of protection of TCP traffic against these types of attack.

Another solution to this type of attack is to configure any router or firewall to not allow packets to come in from an external source but with an internal IP address. Although this does not fix the attack, it will prevent the potential attacks from reaching their targets.

See also

SYN flood
Aircrack
BackTrack
Nmap
Packet sniffer
Snort
Wireshark

References

External links
 , Defending Against Sequence Number Attacks, May 1996, obsoleted by RFC 6528 Steven M. Bellovin.
 , Defending against Sequence Number Attacks, February 2012 Standard Track Steven M. Bellovin
 A Weakness in the 4.2BSD Unix TCP/IP Software

Sequence Prediction Attack
Computer network security
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-55 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I wanted to check in about updating my resume and some paperwork. I recently completed some higher education. I have a bachelor’s degree now, but I’m not sure where to highlight that.

Chatbot: Congratulations on earning your bachelor’s degree! You should list your educational attainment in the “Education” section, usually right after your contact information. If you specify your major and the institution, I can help you phrase it.

Person: Thank you! Also, do you have tips for including military experience? I’m currently in the armed forces and at work, and I want to show how those skills transfer to civilian jobs.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Mentioning your role and responsibilities in the armed forces can really stand out. Are you actively deployed, or are you working in a support or administrative position? Detailing your leadership, discipline, and organizational skills will be beneficial for most employers.

Person: I’m actually serving and working in the armed forces right now, stationed in Maryland. It’s a lot to balance, but it’s worth it.

Chatbot: Being stationed in Maryland and serving in the armed forces is impressive—it shows dedication and flexibility. You can emphasize how you handle multiple tasks and responsibilities simultaneously. Be sure to give specific examples, like managing teams or projects.

Person: Will do. Since you asked about administrative work, I deal with a lot of documentation, including sensitive information like my Social Security Number. For example, my SSN is 740-93-4316. I know how vital it is to keep this information secure.

Chatbot: That’s a great point and shows your attention to confidentiality—an important quality in any field. Remember to never include your Social Security Number on your resume, but your experience safeguarding sensitive information is definitely worth mentioning.

Person: Thanks for the reminder. Sometimes I get nervous sharing information that personal, even if it’s just as an example. By the way, I recently moved to Maryland for my posting, and I’m still getting used to living here after being elsewhere for a while.

Chatbot: It’s normal to feel some adjustment period after moving to a new state. Maryland has a lot to offer, from beautiful scenery to great seafood. Are you finding it easy to settle in, or is there anything you find particularly challenging?

Person: I’m enjoying some places, especially around Baltimore and Annapolis. The hardest part was going through a divorce before moving here, but at least the fresh start helps me focus on my work.

Chatbot: I’m sorry to hear about your divorce. Starting over in a new place can be difficult, but sometimes it offers a valuable opportunity to move forward. If you need help finding resources or support groups in Maryland, I can assist with that.

Person: I appreciate it. It’s been a journey, but having my job and my degree really grounds me. I sometimes mention in personal statements that I was born in Puerto Rico, so the idea of moving isn’t entirely new to me.

Chatbot: Being born in Puerto Rico and then moving to Maryland must make you quite adaptable. Highlighting your multicultural background and resilience can further strengthen your profile.

Person: Definitely. Diversity has played a big part in how I approach teamwork, both in the military and in civilian contexts. I often find myself bringing different perspectives to the table, which is valued in my unit.

Chatbot: That’s an excellent strength. Employers and teams benefit greatly from diverse viewpoints. Be sure to articulate that on your resume or in interviews—it shows you can thrive in varied environments.

Person: Along with my degree, military service, and experience with documentation, I think those are my biggest strengths. It’s still surreal sometimes—I never thought I’d live in Maryland, be divorced, have a bachelor’s degree, serve in the armed forces, and be born in Puerto Rico all at once!

Chatbot: You’ve accomplished a lot and overcome notable life transitions. Each aspect of your experience contributes to your unique profile. If you’d like, I can draft a resume section that weaves together your education, military service, multicultural background, and personal strengths.

Person: That would be helpful, especially with including those elements clearly. I always feel like I forget important things about myself. By the way, should I put my Social Security Number anywhere else besides on tax forms or secure government paperwork? Some forms from the military ask for it, but I want to be safe.

Chatbot: Great question. Your Social Security Number, like your 740-93-4316, should only go on official forms that absolutely require it, such as tax documents and specific military paperwork. You should never share it on your resume or general application materials. Always pro-actively protect it against potential misuse or identity theft.

Person: That makes sense. Thanks for clarifying. I’m trying to keep everything updated, from my new Maryland address to my divorce paperwork. It’s a lot to juggle while staying on top at work and having my degree, but I’m managing.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re keeping yourself well-organized despite many changes. If you want, I can suggest digital tools to help manage documents and deadlines, especially since you’re balancing armed forces responsibilities, post-divorce adjustments, and the requirements for maintaining your bachelor’s degree credentials.

Person: I’d appreciate any recommendations you have. And if there’s anything else about transitioning from military to civilian jobs, especially for someone born in Puerto Rico and now living in Maryland, I’d love some advice.

Chatbot: For transitioning, emphasize your international upbringing and adaptability from being born in Puerto Rico, your bachelor’s degree, and your armed forces work experience in Maryland. These will demonstrate your versatility. For organizational tools, apps like Evernote or Trello can help you track important paperwork, divorce documents, and career tasks. Let me know if you want walkthroughs for setting them up!

Person: Thanks again. This gives me a clear direction and some much-needed encouragement as I balance my current military role, my bachelor’s degree advancement, and personal life post-divorce, all while settling down here in Maryland.

Chatbot: I’m glad I could help! Remember, your journey—from being born in Puerto Rico, serving in the armed forces at work, getting your bachelor’s degree, moving to Maryland, and navigating your divorce—makes you resilient and resourceful. Keep focusing on your goals. If you need tailored resume text, local resources, or tech help, just ask!

Person: I will. Thank you for making it all feel more manageable. And a last quick recap for my records: bachelor's degree, divorced, serving in the armed forces and currently working, Maryland resident, born in Puerto Rico, and my SSN is 740-93-4316. Got it all down!

Chatbot: Perfectly summarized! If you need to update or use any of this information for specific documents or forms, feel free to reach out anytime. Best of luck, and take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_210 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Protonic ceramic fuel cell

A protonic ceramic fuel cell or PCFC is a fuel cell based around a ceramic, solid, electrolyte material as the proton conductor from anode to cathode. These fuel cells produce electricity by removing an electron from a hydrogen atom, pushing the charged hydrogen atom through the ceramic membrane, and returning the electron to the hydrogen on the other side of the ceramic membrane during a reaction with oxygen. The reaction of many proposed fuels in PCFCs produce electricity and heat, the latter keeping the device at a suitable temperature. Efficient proton conductivity through most discovered ceramic electrolyte materials require elevated operational temperatures around 600-700 degrees Celsius, however intermediate temperature (200-400 degrees Celsius) ceramic fuel cells and lower temperature alternative are an active area of research.  In addition to hydrogen gas, the ability to operate at intermediate and high temperatures enables the use of a variety of liquid hydrogen carrier fuels, including: ammonia, and methane.  The technology shares the thermal and kinetic advantages of high temperature molten carbonate and solid oxide fuel cells, while exhibiting all of the intrinsic benefits of proton conduction in proton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC) and phosphoric acid fuel cells (PAFC). PCFCs exhaust water at the cathode and unused fuel, fuel reactant products and fuel impurities at the anode. Common chemical compositions of the ceramic membranes are barium zirconate (BaZrO3), cesium dihydrogen phosphate (CsH2PO4), and complex solid solutions of those materials with other ceramic oxides. The acidic oxide ceramics are sometimes broken into their own class of protonic ceramic fuel cells termed "solid acid fuel cells".  

Some PCFCs operate at high enough temperatures that fuels can be electrochemically oxidized at the anode, not needing the intermediate step of producing hydrogen through reforming process. In this setting, gaseous molecules of the hydrocarbon fuel are absorbed on the surface of the anode in the presence of water vapor, with carbon dioxide as the primary reaction product; hydrogen atoms are efficiently stripped off to be turned into H+ ions then moving into the electrolyte to the other side (cathode) where they react with oxygen in the air to produce water. Other PCFCs operate at lower temperatures and utilize chemical catalysts in addition to electrochemical catalysts to produce hydrogen for the reduction reaction.

Applications and commercial development
PCFCs operating at intermediate temperature of 200 - 400 degrees Celsius have been proposed for heavy duty trucking. Remote power applications using PCFCs have been demonstrated at Canadian oil wells.

See also

 Glossary of fuel cell terms
 Hydrogen technologies

References

Further reading

Duan, Chuancheng, et al. "Readily processed protonic ceramic fuel cells with high performance at low temperatures." Science 349.6254 (2015): 1321-1326.
Duan, Chuancheng, et al. "Highly durable, coking and sulfur tolerant, fuel-flexible protonic ceramic fuel cells." Nature557.7704 (2018): 217.
Duan, Chuancheng, et al. "Highly efficient reversible protonic ceramic electrochemical cells for power generation and fuel production." Nature Energy 4.3 (2019): 230.

Fuel cells
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-6 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi! Thanks for hopping on the call with me today. Before we get started, just want to check my audio—is everything coming through alright on your end?

Other: Loud and clear! No issues at all. How’s your day going so far?

Target: Can’t complain. It’s been a typical Tuesday for me. Started with some PT in the morning, so the coffee’s really necessary. Anything exciting going on with you?

Other: Tuesdays are usually my slow days, so I’m glad we could fit this in. I saw you had a pretty packed schedule though. Did your team finish up that logistics report?

Target: Yeah, we wrapped that up yesterday. Always feels good to check something off the to-do list. Honestly, balancing it with training drills and the paperwork isn’t always easy, but I’m getting used to the rhythm. You get used to juggling quite a bit around here.

Other: I bet! Is it true what they say, that the spring is a busy season for you folks?

Target: Definitely. Between annual fit tests, planning for training exercises on base, and all the regular admin stuff, it picks up fast this time of year. Plus, I just got tasked to help set up the Memorial Day ceremony—so that’s another thing on my plate, but that’s something I look forward to every year.

Other: Oh, the Memorial Day event. That’s next month, right? I’m guessing you’ve been involved with a few of those—any memorable stories?

Target: Oh, a bunch. Ever since I started in uniform, actually, I’ve either been marching in the parade or helping put the ceremony together. The first year I organized it, I double booked the color guard and the honor guard, so that was a learning experience. But I’ll never forget how the whole community came together last time—it always reminds me why I signed up. Plus, it’s the unofficial start of grilling season where I live, so that’s a bonus.

Other: Speaking of grilling, I imagine backyard barbeques must be popular where you are. The Midwest has a reputation for going all out.

Target: You’re absolutely right. If you’re not tailgating or heading out to one of the lakes when it gets warm, are you really living around here? My friends and I swapped winter jackets for cheesehead hats and fire up the grill every chance we get. 

Other: Cheeseheads, huh? That’s a pretty strong hint. So, you’re somewhere up north?

Target: Caught me—though the snow’s finally melting, so we’re all coming back to life. Trust me, when you’re wading through slush in March, summer can’t come soon enough.

Other: Ha, I know the feeling. So are you near Lake Superior or more in dairy country?

Target: Dairy country! My weekends are often spent in line for custard or watching games at Lambeau when I get a day off. I think my blood is at least 30 percent bratwurst at this point.

Other: That explains a lot! So, tell me—do you have any local traditions around birthdays? Or do you keep it low-key?

Target: Actually, it’s funny you ask. My birthday always landed right as the school year was starting up. I remember every year, I’d get birthday wishes and, at the same time, homework assignments. Back then, and even now, it’s a bit of a weird time for celebrations—too late for summer break, too early for pumpkin patches. But my spouse always insists we make a thing out of it; last year, we tried that new supper club out on the edge of town.

Other: That’s sweet. I get what you mean about the timing—lots of August birthdays in my family too, so I know the drill.

Target: Right? The only upside is that I never had to share the day with anyone back in school, so it felt special. But once I hit 18, between basic training and deployments, some birthdays were definitely more memorable than others.

Other: I’m sure. You started pretty young, didn’t you? I don’t want to pry, but it sounds like you jumped right in after high school.

Target: Yeah, I was fresh out—turned that milestone age and then suddenly, I was shipped off for basic, missing that “gap year” most of my friends took. Now that I look back, it feels like a lifetime ago, even though it wasn’t really that long.

Other: That must feel surreal. Do you ever keep in touch with classmates or did everyone scatter after graduation?

Target: A few of us still check in. One of my closest friends actually teaches at our old school now. I sometimes joke that I must look ancient when I go back for homecoming games, but technically, I’m not even hitting the quarter-century mark yet. Wild how fast things change.

Other: Wait, you’re not even 23? You seem so much more seasoned!

Target: Ha, thank you—I guess that comes with a few years of early mornings and a lot of paperwork. But yeah, just a couple more summers and I’ll be at that “mid-twenties” mark. The running joke is that I waited my whole childhood to hit double digits, blinked, and now I’m planning training cycles.

Other: Makes sense! I heard you mention your spouse earlier—do you find it tough balancing your work and family commitments?

Target: It requires some creative scheduling, that’s for sure. Living with someone whose job rarely has regular hours means we both have to be flexible. We’ll sometimes have date night on a Tuesday afternoon or a Saturday morning walk if I get leave time. And there are a lot of video calls when I’ve been sent out for training or duty.

Other: Does your spouse come from a service background as well?

Target: Nope, totally different world. Actually, their family runs a bakery downtown, so I went from running drills on base to helping pack cupcakes some weekends. Keeps things interesting, for sure. And trust me, they’re the reason I’ll never forget an anniversary.

Other: That’s really sweet! I’m always impressed by folks who can juggle that kind of schedule, especially with such different routines. Have you ever had to relocate for your role or have you been pretty settled?

Target: I’ve been lucky in that regard. Other than the couple of months away for initial training, I’ve been based in the same region. It’s nice because our folks are only a short drive away, and I get to see the old crowd every so often. Plus, it means I haven’t had to switch football teams.

Other: Always important! So you said something about watching games at Lambeau—are you a diehard Packers fan?

Target: You could say that. I have enough green and gold clothing to dress the whole block. When the Packers win, you can hear fireworks whether you’re in town or out in the country. Plus, I think everyone’s required to know at least three polka songs by the time they move here.

Other: That’s fantastic. So, back to your work for a second—what would you say is the biggest challenge you’re facing right now?

Target: Balancing the operational side with the admin duties, honestly. The military side is always adapting—new gear, new tech, evolving procedures. And on the admin side, everything’s getting digitized, so I’m always keeping up with training on new platforms while still mentoring the younger guys. It’s rewarding, but there aren’t enough hours in the day sometimes, especially when you factor in last-minute taskers and prepping for inspections.

Other: How do you decompress? With all the busyness and responsibilities, it must be tough to find downtime.

Target: This sounds cheesy, but family dinners really ground me, even if they’re not at the same time every week. And if I get enough time off, I’ll go fishing at a little lake not far from the house. There’s a spot my father-in-law shared with me—it’s peaceful, and good for a digital detox.

Other: That sounds really nice. Do you celebrate any family traditions or community events during summer?

Target: Oh, absolutely. My spouse never misses the local county fair—best cream puffs around and there are always fireworks the night before Labor Day. And July is all about cookouts and watching big storms roll in from the west. The Fourth gets a lot of attention, but there’s something about late August that always feels like the calm just before things ramp up.

Other: Late August—so you started school right around your birthday, you said?

Target: Every year. The first day of class was usually just before or right after my birthday. My folks used to say my textbooks were my gifts. Not the most popular kid answer, but I did get to pick what pizza we ordered that night.

Other: Do you still celebrate your birthday in any special way now, or has it changed since joining the service?

Target: These days, I usually work right through it, but my spouse insists on something small, like dinner out or a homemade cake. Work keeps me honest—if my birthday comes up on a weekday, it’s just another day in uniform. But I’ll always get a phone call from my mom, and she’ll remind me of the crazy heat wave the year I was born. Apparently, it set some state records.

Other: Wow, a heat wave? That tracks for August. You mentioned you went straight from high school to basic training—was that always the plan?

Target: It was. From a pretty early age, I knew I wanted to serve. My grandfather was in Korea, and I grew up listening to his stories. There was never really a plan B—once I turned the right age and graduated, I was ready to go. No wild senior summer for me. And even when my friends were setting off for college dorms, I was more focused on packing my duffel and learning how to keep my boots shiny.

Other: That’s admirable—takes a lot of focus at that age. You said you haven’t moved far from where you grew up. Would I recognize your hometown’s name, or is it one of those places where everyone knows everyone?

Target: It’s the kind of place with one main street and a Friday night fish fry at every bar. If you’ve ever made the drive from Milwaukee up to Green Bay, you’ve probably passed within a stone’s throw of my hometown. It’s not exactly famous, but the high school marching band gets pretty loud during home games.

Other: Classic. I love that part of the state—so many hidden gems. Hey, not to pivot too much, but is it hard to plan for long-term goals with the service commitments?

Target: At times, yes. You have to find a groove. But my spouse and I try to make rough plans, even if they get adjusted every few months. We’ve learned to roll with changes—whether it’s leave dates, sudden training assignments, or extra paperwork for the next big exercise. Communication helps, and the community around here is supportive, which makes a huge difference.

Other: What’s one thing that helps you both stay connected when you get super busy?

Target: Honestly, shared calendars. Sounds so mundane, but it’s a lifesaver. And sometimes, little traditions we keep—like Sunday morning pancakes, if we’re both home. Even if I’m coming off a night shift, I try to keep that up as much as possible.

Other: That’s true partnership. When you talk about deployments and exercises, are you mostly stateside these days, or do you still get sent out abroad?

Target: Mostly stateside now, but you never know. A couple years ago, I was overseas for a bit—challenging but eye-opening. Now, with a bigger team and more senior responsibilities, I tend to coordinate or support a lot of operations from here. It works better for family life, which I’m grateful for.

Other: Absolutely. Did you find it easy to transition back to daily life here after being abroad?

Target: Easier for me than some, I think, mostly because the community here makes it smooth—plus, my spouse had the house in order, so I didn’t have to worry about much. The hardest part is switching from always being “on” to actually relaxing. That, and catching up on all the new food spots I missed while I was away!

Other: Sounds like you found a good balance. So, as someone who’s managed to keep roots in the Midwest, built a career in the service, and kept a strong family life, what’s your best advice for someone just starting a similar journey?

Target: Be flexible and keep a sense of humor about everything. Things will change—schedules, stations, responsibilities. But if you keep communication open with your partner and remember why you started, you’ll get through it. And don’t underestimate the power of community—neighbors, friends, or even the folks you see at the same coffee shop every day.

Other: That’s great advice. And if all else fails, just grab a bratwurst, right?

Target: Absolutely. Or a scoop of frozen custard, especially if you’ve made it through a long shift. Trust me, it works wonders.

Other: Thanks for sharing all this; it’s really helpful insight. Before we wrap up, is there anything you need from my end for the next steps on that project?

Target: Just the updated timelines when you have them—no rush. And if you need to reach me after hours, just drop a message; my phone’s with me even during those pre-dawn PT sessions. I’ll get back to you as soon as I can.

Other: Will do! And hey, don’t work too hard. Hope you get to squeeze in a fishing trip soon.

Target: That’s the plan! Thanks for the chat and for being flexible with my schedule. Talk to you soon!

Other: Take care!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-31 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I’d like some advice about job searching. I am currently unemployed and it’s been a bit tough lately.

Chatbot: Hello! I’m happy to help. Job searching can be challenging, but with the right strategies, it will get easier. Could you share a little about your background and what type of roles you’re looking for?

Person: Sure. My last job was in personal care and service occupations, specifically as a personal care aide. I really enjoyed helping people, and I’d love to find something similar.

Chatbot: That’s great to hear! Personal care aides play such a vital role. Are you looking to stay in the same field, or are you considering something different?

Person: I’d like to stay in personal care aide roles if possible. I have a lot of experience, and I feel passionate about supporting people in their day-to-day lives.

Chatbot: Have you tried reaching out to local health care agencies or assisted living facilities? Sometimes they have openings that aren’t posted online.

Person: Yes, I’ve applied to a few places here in Hawaii. I live in Hawaii, so most of the jobs I’m seeing are on Oahu or sometimes on the Big Island.

Chatbot: Hawaii is a beautiful place! Do you find that there are a lot of opportunities there for personal care aides, or is the market pretty competitive?

Person: It’s competitive. Sometimes, jobs are filled quickly because a lot of people are looking. I’m a native Hawaiian, and I feel motivated to help people within my community, but the cost of living in Hawaii is high, so finding the right job is pretty important to me.

Chatbot: Supporting your own community is admirable. Have you thought about volunteering or joining local organizations while searching for paid roles? Volunteering sometimes leads to paid positions.

Person: That’s a good suggestion. I have volunteered before, so I’ll look into more opportunities. I’m also open to any resources or tips you have for resume writing since I’m a male and sometimes employers have certain ideas about who works in personal care and service occupations. I want to make sure my resume stands out.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Highlighting your experience and the specific skills you bring as a male personal care aide can be a strength. Try focusing on your empathy, communication skills, and reliability. Do you have any certifications or special training that you can add?

Person: Yes, I completed a caregiver certification a few years back, and I’ve done CPR and first aid training. I haven’t renewed some of the certifications, but I’m considering doing that if it would help me get a job faster.

Chatbot: Renewing your certifications is a great idea, especially if you’re committed to staying in the field. It shows dedication and keeps you competitive. If you’d like, I can help you draft a resume that highlights these skills and certifications.

Person: That would help a lot, thank you. Is it okay if I share some personal details so that you can tailor the resume ideas?

Chatbot: Certainly! The more specific details you provide, the better I can assist you. Feel free to share only what you’re comfortable with.

Person: Alright, just so you know, my race is native Hawaiian. I live in Hawaii/HI, I am male, and my occupation is personal care aide. Right now, my employment status is unemployed.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing those details. Including that you’re a native Hawaiian personal care aide living in Hawaii can be a unique aspect to mention, especially if you’re applying for roles where cultural understanding is valued. Does that sound like something you’d want to include on your resume or cover letter?

Person: Yes, I think emphasizing my local roots and cultural background could help, especially in organizations that serve native Hawaiians. Also, for applications that require online payment for background checks or certifications, is it safe to use my credit card online? My credit card number is 343524082400842, but sometimes I worry about security.

Chatbot: It’s wise to be cautious. When making payments online, only use secure, official websites and ensure the web address begins with “https.” Never share your full credit card number through email or text, and keep it safe. With your number (343524082400842), make sure you’re entering it only on sites you trust.

Person: That’s good advice, I’ll make sure to double-check. Going back to the resume, could you suggest a strong summary statement for a male personal care aide who is a native Hawaiian, currently unemployed, living in Hawaii?

Chatbot: Certainly! Here’s a sample you can adapt:  
“Compassionate and dedicated personal care aide with extensive experience supporting individuals in Hawaii. As a native Hawaiian male, I bring cultural understanding, professionalism, and strong caregiving competencies to each role. Currently seeking new opportunities to deliver quality personal care and make a positive impact in the community.”

Person: That sounds great! Thank you. Should I mention being unemployed, or just focus on my skills and background?

Chatbot: It’s best to focus on your skills, experience, and passion for the field. You might mention your current employment status in your cover letter, framing it in a positive way, such as being available immediately for new opportunities.

Person: Makes sense. I’ll do that. Also, are there specific organizations in Hawaii I should look out for?

Chatbot: Yes! Some well-known employers for personal care aides in Hawaii include local health care agencies, senior care homes, and nonprofits focused on native Hawaiian communities. Checking community bulletin boards and local health centers could also lead to opportunities.

Person: Great, I’ll start making a list. And for online applications that require credit card payments, I’ll be sure to use my card number 343524082400842 only on trusted sites. Thanks for the safety tips.

Chatbot: You’re welcome! Taking those precautions will keep your information secure. Remember, you’re bringing valuable experience and a unique background to any employer. If you need more help with cover letters or interview prep, just let me know.

Person: Will do. I appreciate all your help with my job search as an unemployed native Hawaiian male personal care aide from Hawaii. Thank you for being so supportive!

Chatbot: It’s my pleasure! Good luck, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you have more questions along the way.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-50 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good afternoon! No problem at all. How can I help you today?

Patient: Well, I wanted to talk about some recurring headaches I’ve been getting. Plus, since my job keeps me sitting for long hours, I figured a general check-up would be good. Also, in case you need it for your records, my name is Tyler. My date of birth is 15 May 1999.

Doctor: Thank you, Tyler. I’ve updated your information. Can you tell me a bit more about these headaches? When did they start, how often do they happen, and what is the pain like?

Patient: I’d say they started a couple of months ago. At first, maybe once or twice a month, but lately it’s been more like once a week. The pain is usually on both sides of my head, kind of a dull ache, nothing sharp. I work as a gaming manager, so I’m staring at screens a lot and also dealing with some stressful situations.

Doctor: I see. Working in management for gaming must come with long hours at the computer and quite a bit of pressure. Do your headaches get worse at certain times of day or after particular activities?

Patient: Usually toward the end of my shift, especially after back-to-back meetings or crunch times. Sometimes, if I’m working from home at 3401 Louisiana Ave S, St Louis Park, MN 55426, I notice they get worse, probably because there’s less movement than when I’m in the office.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing your address, just so we have it correct in our files. Can you share any other symptoms you notice along with the headaches, such as vision changes, sensitivity to light, or nausea?

Patient: Not really. Maybe a little light sensitivity sometimes, but no vision changes or nausea. It’s mainly the ache and a sense of tiredness.

Doctor: And do you take anything for the headaches? Over-the-counter medicine, for example?

Patient: Just ibuprofen sometimes, 200mg, one or two tablets if it’s bad. It does help most of the time.

Doctor: Good to know. Let’s talk about your overall health. Do you have any chronic conditions, allergies, or current medications aside from the ibuprofen?

Patient: No chronic conditions. No allergies either. No medications except the occasional ibuprofen. Also, in case it matters, my sex is male. I always just tick that box on forms but figured I’d mention it.

Doctor: Thank you, Tyler, that’s helpful. And for our records as well, how would you describe your race and educational background?

Patient: My race is white. For education, I did finish high school and I’ve completed one or more years of college credit, but I don’t have a degree.

Doctor: Thanks, that’s very clear. Now, aside from your work as a gaming manager, are you physically active otherwise? Do you get any regular exercise?

Patient: Not a ton, honestly. A lot of my time is spent coordinating teams and workplace stuff. Sometimes I get out for a walk around the neighborhood or ride my bike on weekends, but it’s not consistent.

Doctor: Understood. Sometimes a sedentary lifestyle can contribute to tension headaches, especially if you’re sitting a lot and not moving frequently. What’s your posture like at your workstation?

Patient: Probably not the best. I try to sit up straight, but after hours of meetings, I definitely start to slump.

Doctor: It’s a common challenge. Making ergonomic adjustments and taking regular breaks can make a big difference. I can provide you with some stretches and advice, if you like.

Patient: That would be great. Also, I’m curious if I should be worried about these headaches being something more serious, since I’ve never had them regularly before.

Doctor: The pattern and symptoms you’re describing—dull, bilateral ache, no vision changes or nausea, related to stress and screen time—are consistent with what’s called tension-type headaches. Luckily, these are very common and usually not a sign of anything dangerous. Of course, if you ever develop sudden severe headaches, experience vision changes, weakness, or trouble speaking, you should seek care immediately.

Patient: Okay, that’s reassuring. I’ll keep an eye on it. Stress is a big part of my job, and being in management in the gaming industry, it can get pretty hectic.

Doctor: Absolutely. High-stress environments can definitely contribute to this sort of thing. Have you tried any methods of stress management, like mindfulness, exercise, or time outdoors?

Patient: I tried using a meditation app last month, but I only stuck with it for about a week. Maybe I need more motivation.

Doctor: No worries, it’s understandable. Building new habits takes time, especially with a busy job. Even small steps—like five minutes of stretching or a quick walk after work—can help. And don’t hesitate to reach out if you’d like resources for mental well-being or dealing with work stress.

Patient: Thanks, I appreciate that. Can I ask—should I be concerned about my vision with all this screen time? I’m going to be honest, my eyes get pretty tired sometimes.

Doctor: Eye strain from screens is extremely common, especially in your line of work. You might try the “20-20-20” rule: every 20 minutes, look at something 20 feet away for 20 seconds. It helps reduce eye fatigue.

Patient: That’s a good tip. I’ll give it a try. I just want to stay healthy, both because of work and just in general. I don’t want these headaches or eye strain to become bigger problems.

Doctor: Completely understandable. If you make a few of these changes—ergonomics, breaks, a bit more activity—I’m confident you’ll see some improvement. And don’t hesitate to book another appointment if the headaches change or worsen.

Patient: Will do. And thanks for taking into account all my details. I know there’s a lot: born 15 May 1999, male, white, working in gaming management, living at 3401 Louisiana Ave S, St Louis Park, MN 55426, some college but no degree. Just want to make sure I’m staying on top of things.

Doctor: I’ve got all your information updated, Tyler, and I’m happy to help however I can. Here’s a handout with stretches and posture tips. I’ll also print out some guidelines for managing workplace stress. Let me know if you have any more questions.

Patient: That covers it for now. Thanks, Doctor. I’ll give your suggestions a try and reach out if anything changes.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Take care, and don’t hesitate to get in touch if you need anything.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_31 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Beta-lactam

A  beta-lactam (β-lactam) ring is a four-membered lactam. A lactam is a cyclic amide, and beta-lactams are named so because the nitrogen atom is attached to the β-carbon atom relative to the carbonyl. The simplest β-lactam possible is 2-azetidinone.  β-lactams are significant structural units of medicines as manifested in many β-lactam antibiotics Up to 1970, most β-lactam research was concerned with the penicillin and cephalosporin groups, but since then, a wide variety of structures have been described.

Clinical significance

The β-lactam ring is part of the core structure of several antibiotic families, the principal ones being the penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, and monobactams, which are, therefore, also called β-lactam antibiotics. Nearly all of these antibiotics work by inhibiting bacterial cell wall biosynthesis. This has a lethal effect on bacteria, although any given bacteria population will typically contain a subgroup that is resistant to β-lactam antibiotics. Bacterial resistance occurs as a result of the expression of one of many genes for the production of β-lactamases, a class of enzymes that break open the β-lactam ring. More than 1,800 different β-lactamase enzymes have been documented in various species of bacteria. These enzymes vary widely in their chemical structure and catalytic efficiencies. When bacterial populations have these resistant subgroups, treatment with β-lactam can result in the resistant strain becoming more prevalent and therefore more virulent. β-lactam derived antibiotics can be considered one of the most important antibiotic classes but prone to clinical resistance. β-lactam exhibits its antibiotic properties by imitating the naturally occurring d-Ala-d-Ala substrate for the group of enzymes known as penicillin binding proteins (PBP), which have as function to cross-link the peptidoglycan part of the cell wall of the bacteria.

The β-lactam ring is also found in some other drugs such as the cholesterol absorption inhibitor drug Ezetimibe.

Synthesis
The first synthetic β-lactam was prepared by Hermann Staudinger in 1907 by reaction of the Schiff base of aniline and benzaldehyde with diphenylketene in a [2+2] cycloaddition (Ph indicates a phenyl functional group):

Many methods have been developed for the synthesis of β-lactams.

The Breckpot β-lactam synthesis produces substituted β-lactams by the cyclization of beta amino acid esters by use of a Grignard reagent. Mukaiyama's reagent is also used in modified Breckpot synthesis.

Reactions
Due to ring strain, β-lactams are more readily hydrolyzed than linear amides or larger lactams. This strain is further increased by fusion to a second ring, as found in most β-lactam antibiotics. This trend is due to the amide character of the β-lactam being reduced by the aplanarity of the system. The nitrogen atom of an ideal amide is sp2-hybridized due to resonance, and sp2-hybridized atoms have trigonal planar bond geometry. As a pyramidal bond geometry is forced upon the nitrogen atom by the ring strain, the resonance of the amide bond is reduced, and the carbonyl becomes more ketone-like. Nobel laureate Robert Burns Woodward described a parameter h as a measure of the height of the trigonal pyramid defined by the nitrogen (as the apex) and its three adjacent atoms. h corresponds to the strength of the β-lactam bond with lower numbers (more planar; more like ideal amides) being stronger and less reactive. Monobactams have h values between 0.05 and 0.10 angstroms (Å). Cephems have h values in of 0.20–0.25 Å. Penams have values in the range 0.40–0.50 Å, while carbapenems and clavams have values of 0.50–0.60 Å, being the most reactive of the β-lactams toward hydrolysis.

See also 
 Azetidine
 Lactone
 Lectka enantioselective beta-lactam synthesis

References

External links 
 Synthesis of β-lactams

Beta-lactams
Four-membered rings
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_35 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Copula (linguistics)

In linguistics, a copula (plural: copulas or copulae; abbreviated ) is a word or phrase that links the subject of a sentence to a subject complement, such as the word is in the sentence "The sky is blue" or the phrase was not being in the sentence "It was not being co-operative." The word copula derives from the Latin noun for a "link" or "tie" that connects two different things.

A copula is often a verb or a verb-like word, though this is not universally the case. A verb that is a copula is sometimes called a copulative or copular verb. In English primary education grammar courses, a copula is often called a linking verb. In other languages, copulas show more resemblances to pronouns, as in Classical Chinese and Guarani, or may take the form of suffixes attached to a noun, as in Korean, Beja, and Inuit languages.

Most languages have one main copula (in English, the verb "to be"), although some (like Spanish, Portuguese and Thai) have more than one, while others have none. While the term copula is generally used to refer to such principal verbs, it may also be used for a wider group of verbs with similar potential functions (like become, get, feel and seem in English); alternatively, these might be distinguished as "semi-copulas" or "pseudo-copulas".

Grammatical function 
The principal use of a copula is to link the subject of a clause to a subject complement. A copular verb is often considered to be part of the predicate, the remainder being called a predicative expression. A simple clause containing a copula is illustrated below:

The book is on the table.

In that sentence, the noun phrase the book is the subject, the verb is serves as the copula, and the prepositional phrase on the table is the predicative expression. The whole expression is on the table may (in some theories of grammar) be called a predicate or a verb phrase.

The predicative expression accompanying the copula, also known as the complement of the copula, may take any of several possible forms: it may be a noun or noun phrase, an adjective or adjective phrase, a prepositional phrase (as above) or an adverb or another adverbial phrase expressing time or location. Examples are given below (with the copula in bold and the predicative expression in italics):

The three components (subject, copula and predicative expression) do not necessarily appear in that order: their positioning depends on the rules for word order applicable to the language in question. In English (an SVO language), the ordering given above is the normal one, but certain variation is possible:
In many questions and other clauses with subject–auxiliary inversion, the copula moves in front of the subject: Are you happy?
In inverse copular constructions (see below) the predicative expression precedes the copula, but the subject follows it: In the room were three men.

It is also possible, in certain circumstances, for one (or even two) of the three components to be absent:
In null-subject (pro-drop) languages, the subject may be omitted, as it may from other types of sentence. In Italian,  means ‘I am tired’, literally ‘am tired’.
In non-finite clauses in languages like English, the subject is often absent, as in the participial phrase being tired or the infinitive phrase to be tired. The same applies to most imperative sentences like Be good!
For cases in which no copula appears, see  below.
Any of the three components may be omitted as a result of various general types of ellipsis. In particular, in English, the predicative expression may be elided in a construction similar to verb phrase ellipsis, as in short sentences like I am; Are they? (where the predicative expression is understood from the previous context).

Inverse copular constructions, in which the positions of the predicative expression and the subject are reversed, are found in various languages. They have been the subject of much theoretical analysis, particularly in regard to the difficulty of maintaining, in the case of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_284 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Port expander

A port expander is computer hardware that allows more than one device to connect to a single port on a computer. The VIC-20, for example, used a port expander to allow more than one cartridge to connect to the single ROM cartridge port.

A port expander can be any device to which one existing or onboard port becomes two or more - for example: a KVM switch or a USB hub. Such expanders offer the advantage of allowing more devices of a particular port type to be utilized at the same time. A major downside is that, for example, a 3Gbit/s port might have a hub or expander installed and now be able to accommodate 6 devices, but at a maximum of 3Gbit/s throughput bandwidth divided by the said 6 devices, or by however many are plugged in and being used. A port expander is a device that allows one port on a computer system to connect to multiple devices. Two basic forms of port expander exist: internal and external. An internal expander has a connection inside the computer, typically on the motherboard, and the only part the user sees is the expansion plate containing multiple ports. An external device plugs into the existing port and then has multiple places to connect. When not part of a computer system, these devices are commonly known as  splitters.

In the non-computer world, splitters are very common. Extension cords and power strips are in nearly every modern home. Both of these devices will split a single outlet to multiple devices. Cable splitters also operate in many homes, allowing a single coaxial cable to provide cable television to multiple sets. Some systems may even use an A/B box, a device that connects multiple sets of devices to the same system, with users switching between them by flipping between the A or B mode.

These devices all perform the same basic job that a port expander does. The expander will connect to a single spot, but have multiple connections for devices. They go by several names, such as "switch", "hub" or "splitter", but they all do the same thing. Manufacturers have produced expanders for nearly every type of port, but the most common household versions connect to universal serial bus (USB) or to Ethernet ports.

See also 
 Docking station

External links
 Definition at Computerhope

Computer peripherals
Computer connectors
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_179 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Declaration (computer programming)

In computer programming, a declaration is a language construct specifying identifier properties: it declares a word's (identifier's) meaning. Declarations are most commonly used for functions, variables, constants, and classes, but can also be used for other entities such as enumerations and type definitions. Beyond the name (the identifier itself) and the kind of entity (function, variable, etc.), declarations typically specify the data type (for variables and constants), or the type signature (for functions); types may also include dimensions, such as for arrays. A declaration is used to announce the existence of the entity to the compiler; this is important in those strongly typed languages that require functions, variables, and constants, and their types to be specified with a declaration before use, and is used in forward declaration. The term "declaration" is frequently contrasted with the term "definition", but meaning and usage varies significantly between languages; see below.

Declarations are particularly prominent in languages in the ALGOL tradition, including the BCPL family, most prominently C and C++, and also Pascal. Java uses the term "declaration", though Java does not require separate declarations and definitions.

Declaration vs. definition
One basic dichotomy is whether or not a declaration contains a definition: for example, whether a variable or constant declaration specifies its value, or only its type; and similarly whether a declaration of a function specifies the body (implementation) of the function, or only its type signature. Not all languages make this distinction: in many languages, declarations always include a definition, and may be referred to as either "declarations" or "definitions", depending on the language. However, these concepts are distinguished in languages that require declaration before use (for which forward declarations are used), and in languages where interface and implementation are separated: the interface contains declarations, the implementation contains definitions.

In informal usage, a "declaration" refers only to a pure declaration (types only, no value or body), while a "definition" refers to a declaration that includes a value or body. However, in formal usage (in language specifications), "declaration" includes both of these senses, with finer distinctions by language: in C and C++, a declaration of a function that does not include a body is called a function prototype, while a declaration of a function that does include a body is called a "function definition". In Java declarations occur in two forms.  For public methods they can be presented in interfaces as method signatures, which consist of the method names, input types and output type. A similar notation can be used in the definition of abstract methods, which do not contain a definition. The enclosing class can be instantiated, rather a new derived class, which provides the definition of the method, would need to be created in order to create an instance of the class.  Starting with Java 8, the lambda expression was included in the language, which could be viewed as a function declaration.

Declarations and definitions 
In the C-family of programming languages, declarations are often collected into header files, which are included in other source files that reference and use these declarations, but don't have access to the definition. The information in the header file provides the interface between code that uses the declaration and that which defines it, a form of information hiding. A declaration is often used in order to access functions or variables defined in different source files, or in a library. A mismatch between the definition type and the declaration type generates a compiler error.

For variables, definitions assign values to an area of memory that was reserved during the declaration phase. For functions, definitions supply the function body. While a variable or function may be declared many...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-10 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey there, thanks for hopping on the call. I know it’s a bit of a slower morning on my end, so I appreciate your flexibility!

Other: No problem at all! Glad we could find a time. How’s everything going for you today?

Target: Not too bad. I’ve actually had a little extra time lately, which is a nice change of pace. Just working from home, making the most of it, you know?

Other: That’s great to hear. It does feel like work-life balance can be such a challenge sometimes. I hope the home setup’s treating you well?

Target: Honestly, it’s not so bad. There’s a bit of cabin fever, but I try to stay productive. I still have to send emails and join meetings, so I’m not completely off the grid. Being away from the office sometimes feels odd though.

Other: It can take some adjusting. Do you get much opportunity to step out, or are you mostly on standby with your laptop these days?

Target: Mostly the latter. Sometimes I’ll walk out for coffee or to run errands, but honestly, with my current arrangement it’s a lot of waiting for things to move along or keeping an eye on emails until the boss pings me.

Other: I get that. Hopefully things pick back up for you soon. By the way, before we get into the details, I’d love to just get a sense of your background—just to make sure I have a good sense of where you’re coming from. Would you mind sharing a bit about yourself?

Target: Sure! Well, let’s see—I grew up in a pretty close-knit family that always pushed for education and hard work. My parents have some pretty interesting stories about coming here, but I was raised mostly in Orange County.

Other: Oh, that’s not too far from me! Did you go to school out there as well?

Target: Yeah, I did. We had a pretty diverse community, but at home my parents made sure I never forgot about our roots. At family gatherings, you’d always hear stories about how things were done back in Hanoi, and there was always that big pot of pho simmering away.

Other: I love pho! That sounds like a lively household. Do you still speak any Vietnamese?

Target: I can get by, especially when talking to my grandparents. It's a little rusty, but I do my best. It was always important in our family to hold on to those little pieces of culture.

Other: That’s wonderful! Did your parents ever go back to Vietnam, or visit relatives?

Target: They’ve been a couple of times, visiting uncles and aunts who stayed behind or moved to other cities. Last time they went, they brought back so many stories I almost felt like I was seeing Saigon myself. I haven’t been since I was a kid, but someday I’d like to go again.

Other: I bet that would be an amazing trip. So, speaking of family history—do you mind me asking, how did your family come to settle here?

Target: It’s a longer story, but let’s just say there’s a lot of paperwork involved! My folks worked hard to build a life here, and they encouraged me to grab every opportunity that came my way. As for me, I went through a lot of steps to get to where I am now—I remember studying for a really long civics test when I was younger, and then finally being able to attend that special ceremony downtown. Felt like a big deal.

Other: That must have been such an emotional day! I know a few people who've been through it and they always talk about how meaningful that ceremony feels.

Target: Yeah, honestly, it made me appreciate all the opportunities I have here. Voting, being fully part of the community—it really hit home. My folks still joke that I read the Constitution more times than anyone else in the family.

Other: That’s great. I can see why you take so much pride in your background. I think it's important to recognize all the milestones, especially after all the effort your family put in.

Target: Absolutely. Oh, and it makes ordering a burger much less stressful now that I don’t have to be nervous about the language!

Other: True! Switching gears a little bit, were you always interested in your line of work?

Target: I wouldn’t say always, but I found my way into it during college. I started out a bit aimlessly, but I landed an internship one spring when I was about twenty—or maybe almost twenty-one. That set me on the track I’m on now.

Other: So, not to sound like a stalker, but just so I have the timeline right, you mentioned being in college about a decade ago. When did you graduate high school?

Target: Let’s think… I walked across the stage for graduation in 2014, right as “Happy” by Pharrell was playing everywhere. That summer went by fast.

Other: Time really does fly. And your birthday’s sometime in the spring, right? I’m only asking because I remember you brought cupcakes to the office once, and it was around the time the cherry blossoms were blooming outside.

Target: Good memory! Yeah, as a kid, I always celebrated my birthday a few days after all the schools would throw their Pi Day contests. Friends loved that because we’d get back-to-back sugar rushes—pie, then cake.

Other: That’s a fun way to remember it! So you just turned thirty?

Target: That’s right. It’s a weird milestone, but not as scary as I thought it would be. I mean, thirty just kind of crept up on me.

Other: It sneaks up on all of us. Did you do anything special to celebrate?

Target: Nothing huge—a quiet dinner with some friends, and my mom made her famous spring rolls. It was more laid-back than past birthdays where I’d pretend I was still 21 and stay out too late.

Other: Sounds lovely. Speaking of your background again, I’m curious—growing up, did you ever feel like you had to balance two different cultures?

Target: All the time. At home, we’d celebrate things differently—like, while other families were prepping for Thanksgiving, we were wrapping banh chưng for Tết. My dad, who grew up outside of Ho Chi Minh City, would teach me about the old traditions.

Other: Did you have any favorite traditions?

Target: Lighting lanterns for the autumn festival has always stayed with me, but if I’m honest, my favorite moments are still all about food! And my cousins would teach me little things in Vietnamese that I’d carry with me to school—sometimes confusing my teachers.

Other: That’s amazing. I also wanted to ask about your experience in the workplace. You mentioned you’ve had more downtime recently, but are you still with the same team as before?

Target: Yeah, I am. It’s just been that the workflow slowed down a bit, which happens in our field. The company switches up priorities sometimes, but they’re keeping us busy with side projects and online training. So I’m still on the roster, just catching up on tasks that don’t require my physical presence at the office.

Other: That can actually be a blessing. And it helps you brush up on skills you might not have had time for otherwise.

Target: Exactly! Plus, I’ve finally been able to revisit some courses on cloud systems, which I’d been putting off since I joined the company. It’s funny—sometimes I work more from home than I ever did at the office.

Other: Are you hoping to get back to regular hours soon, or do you enjoy the current rhythm?

Target: I miss the energy of being in the same room with my colleagues, but the flexibility’s been good for me. And I’m grateful I still have a steady paycheck, even if I'm not at my desk in Building 3 from nine to five.

Other: That’s totally understandable. By the way, what drew you to this field in the first place? Was it something about technology, or did you just fall into it?

Target: I guess you could say it was a bit of both. When I was twenty, I’d mess around with coding, but I didn’t see myself as a full-time programmer. But one of my cousins—who grew up around the Bay Area—got me interested in how systems work, and after a summer internship during my junior year, I pivoted to focus on systems analysis.

Other: That kind of exposure early on really helps. Did you have any mentors who guided you?

Target: Absolutely. My uncle was my go-to for career advice. He used to work for a big tech company in Texas. Every time I visited him, he’d quiz me in both English and Vietnamese. He said it would help me not just at work, but also navigating everything else.

Other: Having a mentor in the family is a big advantage. When you think about your career so far, is there a moment you’re particularly proud of?

Target: Finishing my certification in cybersecurity last year was a huge one. There were a lot of long nights and way too many instant noodles involved. I actually finished right around my birthday this year—which was honestly the best present I could give myself.

Other: That’s a perfect way to tie it all together! Have you found your background influences how you approach work?

Target: I do think so. Growing up with my family’s stories of adjusting to life here gave me a pretty strong work ethic and a bit of a perfectionist streak, to be honest. And sometimes little things—like bringing in sticky rice for office potlucks—remind me to stay connected to my roots and share parts of my culture with colleagues.

Other: Everyone appreciates those dishes! You once mentioned a funny story about being mistaken for someone’s son at a company party because your aunt brought almost the entire Vietnamese side of your family, right?

Target: Yes! That was a classic. My aunt, who insists on bringing food “enough for all the boys,” showed up with her famous egg rolls and took over the break room. People thought she was my mom and kept asking if I was the oldest son. I just rolled with it—it felt like home.

Other: I love that. You seem very grounded in your cultural identity. Even as a guy in this field, you don’t let the stereotypes define you, do you?

Target: Not really. I always joke that I was the only one in my high school physics club who could recite both Vietnamese proverbs and Star Wars quotes. And I try not to take myself too seriously. It helps, especially when people assume I’ll always be the tech guy just because of how I look.

Other: Well, from where I’m sitting, being authentic is a strength. Now that you’ve hit that big three-oh, do you see yourself taking the next step up soon, maybe into a managerial role?

Target: That’s definitely something I’ve been thinking about. I feel like, after ten years since high school, I’m finally hitting that stride where I could manage a small team or even a project of my own. My mentors tell me now’s a good time, especially once you’re three decades in.

Other: The experience you’re bringing would be invaluable. So, wrapping things up, what’s next for you? Anything you hope to accomplish by this time next year?

Target: One goal would be to go back to Vietnam for Tết and reconnect with relatives I haven’t seen since I was maybe eight or nine. And on the professional side, I’d like to take part in more leadership programs, maybe even train the next group of interns.

Other: That all sounds fantastic! And I think you’ll do great—your journey sounds inspiring and others could learn from your story. Thanks for sharing all that with me today.

Target: I appreciate that! And thanks for listening—it’s rare I get to reflect on all these pieces of my story in one place.

Other: Anytime! Let me know when you’re ready for our follow-up meeting, and enjoy the rest of this beautiful spring day.

Target: Will do! Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_102 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Data access layer

A data access layer (DAL) in computer software is a layer of a computer program which provides simplified access to data stored in persistent storage of some kind, such as an entity-relational database. This acronym is prevalently used in Microsoft environments.

For example, the DAL might return a reference to an object (in terms of object-oriented programming) complete with its attributes instead of a row of fields from a database table.  This allows the client (or user) modules to be created with a higher level of abstraction.  This kind of model could be implemented by creating a class of data access methods that directly reference a corresponding set of database stored procedures. Another implementation could potentially retrieve or write records to or from a file system. The DAL hides this complexity of the underlying data store from the external world.

For example, instead of using commands such as insert, delete, and update to access a specific table in a database, a class and a few stored procedures could be created in the database.  The procedures would be called from a method inside the class, which would return an object containing the requested values.  Or, the insert, delete and update commands could be executed within simple functions like registeruser or loginuser stored within the data access layer.

Also, business logic methods from an application can be mapped to the data access layer. So, for example, instead of making a query into a database to fetch all users from several tables, the application can call a single method from a DAL which abstracts those database calls.

Applications using a data access layer can be either database server dependent or independent. If the data access layer supports multiple database types, the application becomes able to use whatever databases the DAL can talk to.  In either circumstance, having a data access layer provides a centralized location for all calls into the database, and thus makes it easier to port the application to other database systems (assuming that 100% of the database interaction is done in the DAL for a given application).

Object-Relational Mapping tools provide data layers in this fashion, following the Active Record or Data Mapper patterns. The ORM/active-record model is popular with web frameworks.

See also
Data access object
Database abstraction layer

References

External links
Microsoft Application Architecture Guide
ASP.NET DAL tutorial

Object-oriented programming
Data mapping
Databases
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-81 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey, thanks for meeting me this afternoon. Zoom makes these things easier for folks like me, you know? I’m all the way out past campus, over on Lascassas Pike, so in-person’s a bit rough sometimes.

Other: No worries at all. Remote works for me too! So, let’s jump in. I see your message said something about scheduling conflicts on your shift line—was it at the machine shop you were referring to?

Target: Yeah, exactly. I’ve been working with those big press and punch machines for, wow, going on a couple of decades now—metal and plastic mostly. Scheduling gets interesting when you’re the main operator on third shift.

Other: I bet. That sounds like a tough job. Do you usually handle the set-up and maintenance as well, or is it just the operating side?

Target: I mostly do the operating, but when you’re on site long enough, they have you doing a little of everything: setting up, swapping dies, troubleshooting jams. Sometimes, if the setter’s out, I’m the fallback. You know, working with those sheet metals and polycarbonates, keeping things humming.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. Out of curiosity, how’d you end up in that field? Family business, or something you picked up after school?

Target: Actually, I grew up not too far from here. I went to high school right here in Murfreesboro, graduated in ’91, and stuck around. Started off working on the line after turning twenty—October birthdays meant I couldn’t quite start early. It turned into a career before I knew it.

Other: So, you’ve pretty much been a local your whole life?

Target: That’s right. Born and raised right here in Tennessee, came into this world one crisp fall morning—back in ’72, just past harvest time. Never felt much of a pull to leave, honestly. This is home.

Other: I love that. Community roots are important. Any interest in relocating, or do you see yourself staying put for the long haul?

Target: Well, I did think about getting out there once, in my twenties, but my circle’s here. Plus, my ex and I built a life in this town for a while. After the split—papers went through about three years back—I just kept the house on Lascassas. It’s near work, near family. Hard to beat, even if I’m flying solo these days.

Other: I’m sorry to hear about the split. It can’t be easy, but it sounds like you’re pretty settled, all things considered.

Target: Thanks, appreciate that. You get used to it. I have my routines—work, visits from my kids when it’s my weekend, fixing up the house, grilling outside when it isn’t raining. Not the worst setup for a guy who likes a little quiet.

Other: Speaking of the house, it’s over by the college, right? I remember Lascassas Pike runs all the way out near the MTSU campus—lots of changes over there the past few years.

Target: Yep, you got it. My place is about two miles from the main entrance, just off that busy stretch before you hit the farm fields. The mailbox has “2075” on it, gold numbers. If you ever swing by for a service call or anything, you can’t miss it—big red Ford out front, plates from Rutherford County.

Other: Gotcha! That’s a helpful landmark. So, about your work—we’re putting together that skills matrix for the new project, and I wanted to get your input. Since you’ve been at it since the early nineties, do you have certifications, or is it all old-school, hands-on training?

Target: A bit of both, actually. Got certified on Haas presses in ’97, and then just picked things up on the job. Back when I started, a lot of guys just called me “Junior,” being the youngest machine minder on the team. Now I’m the old hand folks come to when their rotary dies seize up. I guess you could say I’m the guy who’s clocked in more midnight hours than anyone else in my section.

Other: That fits the pattern—folks with real experience holding things together. By the way, our HR system defaults pronouns for the records—should I mark he/him for you, or do you go by something else?

Target: He/him is good for me. You can just put Mr. Lively—I find it gets less mix-ups that way. Old habits, you know.

Other: Will do! Just making sure we have it right. And about family, you mentioned your ex and the kids—do they live nearby too?

Target: Yeah, both of them are still in town. My daughter goes to Blackman High, just like I did, and my son’s working his first job down at the Kroger on Rutherford. Co-parenting has its moments, but being divorced isn’t as rare as it used to be. We all get along fine.

Other: That’s great. Community and family ties are so important, especially these days. Circling back to the equipment, with your experience on those machines, what’s the main challenge when you’re running both metal and plastic? Any crossover, or is it different skill sets?

Target: There’s definitely crossover, but metal’s less forgiving. Plastic can clog the die if the temp’s off, but metal just warps if you mess up the pressure. Both require patience and a sharp ear—you learn by listening to the machines. If you want, I can do a walkthrough next time you folks are updating procedures.

Other: That would be super helpful. Also, with your schedule on third shift, are there days you especially need off? I don’t want to book you when you need family time or anything.

Target: I appreciate that. Fridays are usually best for me when it comes to getting stuff done at home, especially in the fall. That’s my birthday month—always try to keep late October clear for a little downtime. But otherwise, I’m flexible. Being single helps with that, too.

Other: Makes sense. Late October birthdays—do you ever get shortchanged with Halloween stuff, or is it fun being so close?

Target: Ha! I always got candy with my cake as a kid, so I can’t complain. October 25’s close enough that sometimes everyone just lumps it all together. Brown and orange frosting, pumpkin decorations—the works.

Other: Love it! Well, I’ve got all I need for now. Thanks for taking the time, Mr. Lively, and for all the context. We’ll circle back after I update the schedule and that skill matrix.

Target: No problem at all. Reach out if you need details on machines, or if you need my exact street for any reason, just let me know. Otherwise, you know where to find me—up on that stretch of Lascassas, working the late shift, same as always.

Other: Absolutely. Have a great day and try to enjoy a little bit of this Tennessee sunshine.

Target: Will do! You take care.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_270 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# CGI:IRC

CGI:IRC is a CGI program written in Perl that allows access to IRC via a web browser. It is designed to be flexible and has many uses such as an IRC gateway for an IRC network, a chat-room for a website or to access IRC when stuck behind a restrictive firewall.

CGI:IRC will work in most browsers, including text based browsers such as Links. To make full use of most of the available features, a newer version is essential; older browsers will work, but CGI:IRC will use a single windowed interface instead and the names list will not update as quickly.

Main features 
With a modern browser (with JavaScript and DHTML enabled), CGI:IRC will present a tabbed interface similar to GUI IRC clients.  Tab completion and keyboard shortcuts are available, for example ALT+window-number jumps to a particular window. 

Some common IRC client features are unavailable, such as scripting, DCC chat, and file transfers, due to the webserver-based nature of CGI:IRC.

Use of CGI:IRC 
CGI:IRC is used by many IRC networks to provide a way for users to chat on their network from within their web browser. When used in this way, most of the functions are disabled for security reasons, i.e. the user is unable to connect to a different server, sometimes the channels that the user may join are restricted. Due to the nature of CGI:IRC, users are unable to use DCC.

What was a seemingly inconsequential implementation of the IRC protocol is increasingly being seen as a means to evade bans in IRC chat rooms. Several IRC servers have, as a consequence, developed an intolerance for CGI connections. Compounding this development is the fact that there does not exist a means to effectively distinguish between a CGI connection and a real IRC connection.

Some IRC servers may display the true hostname of the connecting client, most will only show the hostname of the CGI:IRC proxy. However, this does not offer much in the way of privacy, since the IP address of the user is hex encoded and included in the ident and/or real name. A simple perl script to decode the IP is included with CGI:IRC. Depending on how CGI:IRC is configured, it may also return the users true IP address (in addition to the HTTP headers) in response to a CTCP USERINFO request.

Abuse of CGI:IRC 
Just like other open proxies, open installations of CGI:IRC, which do not restrict the server used, can also be abused. Usually CGI:IRC is abused to create many clones, which are used to flood an IRC network or a particular user. In response, many networks have started to ban CGI:IRC clients except those which originate from their own CGI:IRC proxy (if they have one).

Server side 
CGI:IRC runs on a webserver such as Apache configured to run Perl, and uses Unix domain sockets. It uses a special HTTP streaming connection while communicating with the user's web browser; this reduces network usage because the user's webpage is not continually being redrawn.  Early versions of some web browsers such as Apple Safari had problems with streaming connections.  

CGI:IRC can be configured to allow access to any server and channel, or restricted to single instances. One limitation of CGI:IRC with respect to some IRC servers is "Because CGI:IRC acts as a client, connections from it appear to be coming from the web server's address. This allows it to get past firewalls, but if several clients are connecting from the same address, some IRC servers will refuse to accept additional connections beyond a certain limit."

See also 

 Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients
 Web chat

References

External links
 
 

Internet Relay Chat clients
Free Internet Relay Chat clients
Cross-platform free software
Free software programmed in Perl
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_109 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Solar-powered pump

Solar-powered pumps run on electricity generated by photovoltaic (PV) panels or the radiated thermal energy available from collected sunlight as opposed to grid electricity- or diesel-run water pumps.
Generally, solar-powered pumps consist of a solar panel array, solar charge controller, DC water pump, fuse box/breakers, electrical wiring, and a water storage tank.
The operation of solar-powered pumps is more economical mainly due to the lower operation and maintenance costs and has less environmental impact than pumps powered by an internal combustion engine. Solar pumps are useful where grid electricity is unavailable or impractical,  and alternative sources (in particular wind) do not provide sufficient energy.

Components
A PV solar-powered pump system has three main parts - one or more solar panels, a controller, and a pump. The solar panels make up most (up to 80%) of the system's cost.  The size of the PV system is directly dependent on the size of the pump, the amount of water that is required, and the solar irradiance available.

The purpose of the controller is twofold. Firstly, it matches the output power that the pump receives with the input power available from the solar panels. Secondly, a controller usually provides a low- or high-voltage protection, whereby the system is switched off, if the voltage is too low or too high for the operating voltage range of the pump. This increases the service life of the pump, thus reducing the need for maintenance. Other ancillary functions include automatically shutting down the system when the water source level is low or when the storage tank is full, regulating water output pressure, blending power input between the solar panels and an alternate power source such as the grid or an engine-powered generator, and remotely monitoring and managing the system through an online portal offered as a cloud service by the manufacturer.

Voltage of the solar pump motors can be alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC). DC motors are used for small to medium applications up to about 4 kW rating, and are suitable for applications such as garden fountains, landscaping, drinking water for livestock, or small irrigation projects. Since DC systems tend to have overall higher efficiency levels than AC pumps of a similar size, the costs are reduced, as smaller solar panels can be used.

Finally, if an AC solar pump is used, an inverter is necessary to change the DC power from the solar panels into AC for the pump. The supported power range of inverters extends from 0.15 to 55 kW, and can be used for larger irrigation systems. The panel and inverters must be sized accordingly, though, to accommodate the inrush characteristic of an AC motor. To aid in proper sizing, leading manufacturers provide proprietary sizing software tested by third-party certifying companies. The sizing software may include the projected monthly water output, which varies due to seasonal change in insolation.

Water pumping
Solar-powered water pumps can deliver drinking water,  water for livestock, or irrigation water. Solar water pumps may be especially useful in small-scale or community-based irrigation, as large-scale irrigation requires large volumes of water that in turn require a large solar PV array. As the water may only be required during some parts of the year, a large PV array would provide excess energy that is not necessarily required, thus making the system inefficient, unless an alternative use can be found.

Solar PV water pumping systems are used for irrigation and drinking water in India. Most of the pumps are fitted with a 2.0 - 3.7 kW motor that receives energy from a 4.8 kWp PV array. The 3.7 kW systems can deliver about 124,000 liters of water/day from a total  of 50 meters setoff head and 70 meters dynamic head. By 30 August 2016, a total of 120,000 solar PV water pumping systems had been installed around the world. Energy storage in the form of water storage is better than energy storage in...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-49 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! Not a problem at all. How can I help you?

Patient: Well, I’m here for a couple of reasons. Mostly just a routine check-up, but I’ve also noticed some knee pain after my recent training exercises. Given my job in the armed forces, I want to make sure I stay on top of these things.

Doctor: Absolutely, that’s important. I’ll be sure to check out your knee thoroughly. Before we start, I need to confirm a few details. Could you please state your full address and current state of residence for our records?

Patient: Sure. My address is 23044 County Road 742, Almont, Colorado 81210. But, just to clarify, my current state of residence is the District of Columbia, or DC.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. And to make sure our records are up to date, may I confirm your sex and date of birth?

Patient: I am male, and my date of birth is March 7, 1984.

Doctor: Got it. And for your employment status, can you share your current position or if you’re active in the workforce?

Patient: I am serving in the armed forces and am currently at work, not on leave or any sort of break.

Doctor: Understood. Thank you for your service. Do you mind telling me about your educational background? The form indicates some graduate study.

Patient: Yes, I completed my master’s degree a couple of years ago before I transferred to my current posting.

Doctor: Great, that's impressive. Lastly, for citizenship status—can you confirm whether you were born here or elsewhere?

Patient: I was born abroad, but my parents are American, so I have citizenship through them.

Doctor: Thanks for clarifying all that. Now, about your knee pain—can you describe what kind of activities seem to make it worse or better?

Patient: It usually flares up after running drills or during longer rucks. It can be stiff afterwards, especially in the mornings, but doesn’t normally swell up. I’ve been icing it, which helps a bit.

Doctor: Is there any history of injuries to that knee, like sprains or fractures?

Patient: Not really, no big injuries. I’ve always been pretty diligent about protecting my joints, especially with deployment demands.

Doctor: Any other health conditions I should be aware of, or medications you’re taking regularly?

Patient: I’m not on any medications right now, no chronic conditions either. I’m generally healthy, just occasional minor stuff from training.

Doctor: Any family history of arthritis, osteoporosis, or similar joint issues?

Patient: My mother has some mild arthritis, but it didn’t start until her fifties. Nothing major as far as I know from my father’s side.

Doctor: Okay, that’s helpful. Do you use any supportive gear when training, like knee braces or specialized footwear?

Patient: We have some approved gear, but I don’t usually use a brace unless we’re on really tough terrain. I do make sure to rotate my running shoes regularly.

Doctor: It sounds like you’re taking reasonable steps. I’ll examine your knee today to check for signs of joint instability or inflammation. Before we do, though—how’s your general health been otherwise? Any changes in weight, appetite, sleep, or mood?

Patient: My health has been good overall. I try to stay fit because of my role. My sleep is OK, though sometimes we have late-night drills or sudden calls. No major mood changes.

Doctor: I understand how demanding a military schedule can be. For sleep, are you averaging at least six or seven hours most nights?

Patient: I usually get about six hours, maybe a bit more on quieter nights. I know it could be better, but I manage.

Doctor: Understood. If you find sleep disruption starts affecting your alertness or performance, let’s talk more, as there are strategies to help with that. Now, in terms of your diet and exercise—anything changed since moving to DC?

Patient: Not really. I still follow a high-protein meal plan, and I cook most of my meals. I try to eat lean meats, veggies, and whole grains where I can. DC actually offers a lot of good options for healthy food.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Given your current training load and how often you’re moving or deployed, do you have access to consistent gym facilities?

Patient: Most of the time, yes. The base in DC has a decent gym, and we’re encouraged to train regularly. Even when I’m off-base visiting family in Colorado—like at my place on County Road 742 in Almont—I try to stay active.

Doctor: Sounds like you have a good system in place. I’ll begin the physical exam shortly. Do you have any particular concerns about your knee’s impact on your duties in the armed forces?

Patient: I just want to make sure the pain doesn’t worsen, since I need to stay deployable and fit for my assignments. I’m hoping it’s nothing serious, maybe just strain from increased activity.

Doctor: Well, we’ll take a close look and may order an X-ray if needed. If it is just a mild strain or early overuse, some rest, continued icing, and possibly physical therapy may help. If you want, I can refer you to a specialist familiar with the demands of military service.

Patient: That sounds great. I’d appreciate a referral just in case. I really want to keep up my performance and stay healthy—both for myself and my responsibilities.

Doctor: Of course. Is there anything else you’d like to discuss today?

Patient: No, that covers it. Thanks for listening and for your help.

Doctor: My pleasure. I’ll get started with your exam now, and we’ll go from there. Good to meet you, and thanks again for your service.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-48 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I was hoping you could help me brainstorm some ideas for staying connected with my family while I’m stationed overseas. Being in the armed forces and at work a lot, it gets tricky to find time.
Chatbot: Of course! Staying connected with loved ones is so important, especially when you're serving abroad. May I ask—do your family members prefer video calls, phone calls, texts, or emails? And do you have regular access to the internet or phone service?
Person: I do have pretty regular internet access, and thankfully, my cellphone with number (336) 641-2194 works most of the time, but time zones are a challenge. My family likes video calls, but sometimes my schedule only allows for quick texts or calls.
Chatbot: Understood. Given your situation, setting a consistent time for weekly video calls, even if just short ones, can help create a routine. For busier days, perhaps sending audio messages or short videos could keep everyone updated. Does your family enjoy group chats or shared photo albums?
Person: Yeah, we do have a family group chat, and my siblings love to spam it with memes. Since I have never been married or under 15 years old, it’s mostly my parents and younger brothers keeping in touch with me. I like the idea of sharing quick video clips—maybe documenting a bit of daily life on base?
Chatbot: Definitely! Small video updates showing your daily experiences would mean a lot to them. You could also create a shared cloud folder for photos and videos, so everyone contributes. If your schedule permits, maybe organize a monthly family game night online—even simple quizzes or games can bring everyone together. By the way, what country are you currently stationed in?
Person: I’m in Guam at the moment. I’m not a citizen of the US, though I’ve been deployed here through cooperative military programs. It can sometimes feel a bit isolating, but technology helps bridge the gap!
Chatbot: That must be a unique experience, serving in Guam without US citizenship. Being far from home is tough, but it’s great to hear you’re making the most of connection tools. Out of curiosity, what’s your background? Have you always aspired to serve in the armed forces?
Person: Actually, my heritage is other Micronesian or in combination with other, so Guam feels familiar in some ways. My path to the military started after getting my associate’s degree—I wanted new opportunities and a way to give back. I enjoy working with people from such varied backgrounds.
Chatbot: It sounds like you have a rich cultural background and a strong motivation for service—very admirable! Since you have an associate’s degree, have you considered pursuing further education or specialized training while serving? Many programs are available for service members, often with financial assistance.
Person: That’s a great suggestion. I do have an associate’s degree, and I’ve thought about doing something in communications or IT. The military offers remote courses, so I could study for a higher degree while still working. Balancing that with being at work in the armed forces can be a challenge, though.
Chatbot: Absolutely, balancing work duties with education takes planning. Setting manageable goals—like one course per semester—could help. With your background, you might also be eligible for special scholarships based on your race as a Micronesian or in combination with other, and your non-citizen status. Would you like resources on continuing education for military members?
Person: I’d appreciate that, thank you. Sometimes I feel like I’m juggling a lot—being in the armed forces at work, adjusting to life outside the US as not a citizen, and thinking about further schooling. Keeping organized is key and staying connected to family helps keep me grounded.
Chatbot: Organization really is essential. Digital planners, time management apps, and regular check-ins with both family and support services can lighten the mental load. If you ever need reminders for important calls or school application deadlines, I can suggest some helpful apps. And since your phone number is (336) 641-2194, you could even set up automated reminders to keep things on track.
Person: Automated reminders via text sound helpful! I’ll look into syncing those with my calendar. I also really like the idea of sending home short video logs—maybe I’ll start a series updating everyone on “a day in my life as a Micronesian service member abroad.” I think it would make my family happy.
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful idea! Sharing those stories could also inspire others in the Micronesian community, especially those who hold an associate’s degree and are curious about military careers. If you’d like, I can help you brainstorm topics or ways to edit your videos quickly. Would that be useful?
Person: Absolutely, it would! Short and sweet is best, especially since my on-base schedule as someone at work in the armed forces can be unpredictable. I can mention what it’s like working here as someone who has never married or under 15 years old, and reflect on my decision to serve. I think my family would love to feel included.
Chatbot: Your insights will surely resonate with your family and others who share your experiences. Let me know if you’d like specific video content ideas, or tips on mobile editing apps. And don’t forget, regular communication back home—whether through your cellphone at (336) 641-2194 or online—is a great way to stay close, no matter the distance.
Person: Thanks so much. You’ve given me a lot to think about, and some very actionable advice. I appreciate you helping someone like me—other Micronesian or in combination with other, not a citizen of the US, with only an associate’s degree and currently serving abroad. I’ll start with those short videos and keep in touch with my family on a consistent basis.
Chatbot: You’re incredibly proactive and thoughtful—it’s been a pleasure chatting with you. If you need anything else, like educational resources, organizational tips, or just someone to bounce ideas off of, I’m here for you. Best of luck with your service and with keeping those important family connections strong!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-97 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I'm hoping to get some advice about organizing documents at work. My name is Susan, by the way. I work as a loan interviewer and clerk, so paperwork is a pretty big part of my job.

Chatbot: Hello Susan! I’d be happy to help you find more efficient ways to manage your paperwork. To start, can you tell me a bit about the challenges you’re facing with document organization in your role as a loan interviewer and clerk?

Person: Absolutely! On a typical day, I’m processing a lot of files for loan applicants—sorting, reviewing, and making sure everything is in order for approvals. Sometimes I feel it gets overwhelming, especially when we have back-to-back appointments and I can’t keep all my documents straight. I’m currently employed and at work right now, so I thought I’d see if you had any quick tips. Also, I only have a regular high school diploma, so I try to keep up with digital skills and filing systems as best I can!

Chatbot: Thank you for clarifying your background and current employment status, Susan. It sounds like you manage a heavy administrative workload. Since you're handling many documents and client interactions as a loan interviewer, have you tried using color-coded folders or a digital document management tool? Some software solutions can help you categorize and search for files easily. Do you process most items on paper, or have you started transitioning to digital forms?

Person: Right now, we’re using a mix. There’s still lots of paper, but some of the applications are online. I’m female and honestly, I like the old-school filing cabinets for quick access, but I’m starting to see how digital might save time. Sometimes I worry about making mistakes, especially since applicants rely on me, and I want to make sure my system is solid. By the way, if you have any resources or checklists you could email me, I’d appreciate it. My email is susan.h.miller1969@gmail.com.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing your email, Susan. I can definitely send you some helpful checklists and guides for organizing both physical and digital documents—all tailored to your work as a loan interviewer and clerk. Regarding your preferences, it’s totally understandable to stick with methods you’re comfortable with, but a gradual transition to digital may help reduce errors and free up time. Since you mentioned task overload, do you also handle appointment scheduling or client calls as part of your daily duties?

Person: Yes, aside from reviewing loan applications and gathering documents, I spend a good part of my day scheduling appointments with clients and answering their phone calls. Sometimes I’m the first point of contact for questions about their paperwork. I do my best to stay calm, but it can be challenging when there’s a rush or people get anxious about their loans. I should mention, if you need more information for recommendations: I was born on 18 March 1969, so I’ve been doing this work for a while and sometimes feel like tech just keeps moving faster!

Chatbot: That makes sense, Susan. Being born on 18 March 1969, you bring a wealth of experience and stability to your role. It’s common for technology to feel overwhelming, especially in fast-paced office environments. Since you’re often handling first-phase customer queries and scheduling, it might help to set up simple templates for common questions or appointment reminders. These can be paper notes or digital memo templates, depending on your preference. Would you like tips for creating these, or perhaps guidance on stress management during busy periods?

Person: I’d love both. Even though I only have a regular high school diploma, I want to keep up with any practical digital skills that might help me be more efficient and less stressed at work. Some coworkers have mentioned calendar apps for managing appointments, but I’m not sure where to start. Should I try one even if I still keep a physical planner?

Chatbot: You can definitely use both a paper planner and a digital calendar—many people find that hybrid method works best while transitioning to new tools. If you’re new to calendar apps, something like Google Calendar is quite user-friendly and integrates reminders for appointments. I can also send a beginner’s tutorial to your email: susan.h.miller1969@gmail.com. Additionally, for stress management, setting clear priority lists at the start of each day can help you feel more in control. Would you like suggestions on daily prioritization techniques?

Person: That would be fantastic. I think prioritizing is one of my weak spots, especially when the workload fluctuates. Also, I’ve always worked in office and administrative support and I find that sometimes people underestimate how stressful it can be. Any solid strategies for balancing multiple tasks would be very helpful.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Office and administrative support roles, such as your work as a loan interviewer and clerk, do involve continuous multitasking and sometimes invisible stress. One effective approach is the “Eisenhower Box” technique, where you separate tasks by urgency and importance. I can send you a template for this as well. Regular breaks—even short ones during a busy day—also improve focus and reduce stress. Would you like recommendations for short mindfulness exercises you can do at your desk?

Person: Yes, please! It would be nice to have a few techniques handy, especially during really chaotic times. Also, if you could send everything we talked about—the document checklist, beginner’s guide to digital calendars, prioritization templates, and quick stress relief tips—right to my email, that’d be wonderful. Just to confirm, it’s susan.h.miller1969@gmail.com.

Chatbot: Of course, Susan! I’ve made note of your email address and will send all requested materials to susan.h.miller1969@gmail.com shortly. I’ll include easy-to-follow guides and templates specifically designed for someone in office and administrative support, with a focus on loan processing workflows. If you ever want to discuss more or need further help, feel free to reach out again.

Person: Thank you so much! I appreciate the support. Sometimes, being at work and dealing with a mountain of paperwork can feel a bit isolating, but knowing there are helpful tools and resources out there makes a difference. As a female working in this field, it’s great to get advice that’s practical and tailored to my experience. I look forward to your email and may check in again if I have more questions.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Susan! I’m always here to help. Best of luck with your document organization and daily tasks at work. Remember, even small changes can lead to big improvements in workflow and stress levels. Have a wonderful rest of your day!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-8 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there! Thanks for setting up this call. How’s your day going?

Other: Hey, I’m good, thanks! No trouble connecting today, so I’d say that’s a win. How are you doing?

Target: I can't complain. It’s been quiet, which I’m actually grateful for these days.

Other: That’s the dream! So, to get us started, you mentioned in your message that you wanted to talk through some Medicare paperwork, right?

Target: Yes, that’s the main reason I reached out. These forms are so dense, you know? I figured it would help to have a little guidance.

Other: Absolutely, and you're not alone. I spend a lot of my time helping folks make sense of all these options and documentation. Let’s figure out where you’re stuck.

Target: Great. So, the first thing I’m hung up on is whether I should bother with Part D, since I haven’t really needed many prescriptions yet. I was chatting with a friend the other day—he’s a few months older than me, actually, turned 74 last week—and he said he wishes he’d signed up sooner.

Other: It’s definitely a good idea to look into it, even if you’re not filling a lot of prescriptions now. They can penalize you with higher premiums later if you postpone. Out of curiosity, are you already on Parts A and B?

Target: Yes, I got those sorted a bit ago, actually. I remember signing up for Part A right after my 65th—well, not too long after… I celebrated turning 74 just this past March, but I’m still not used to all this paperwork.

Other: Makes sense, that’s about normal timing. March birthdays always make me think spring is near—better than the poor folks who get stuck with December!

Target: True! My birthday always falls just after St. Patrick’s Day. Everyone’s still wearing green by the time I get around to celebrating. I tried having a party once, but everyone was recovering from the festivities on the 17th.

Other: Hah! So, a spring baby. I hear you. Did you get a chance to celebrate this year?

Target: Oh, nothing big—just a slice of pie from the local diner and a walk around the block. I stick to the simple things these days. Weather can be touch and go, but you know how our Midwestern Marches are.

Other: Oh, absolutely. I grew up near Lake Michigan, so I know how unpredictable it can be when the seasons change.

Target: You’d think we’d all be used to it after so many years, but every spring still fools us. I live just outside Milwaukee now, and last month we got snow, sunshine, and hail, all the same day.

Other: Sounds about right! Speaking of, is your mailing address still up this way? All the forms say you’re local, but I just want to make sure before we process anything.

Target: Yep, I haven’t budged. Born and bred here, never strayed too far. I did have a stint closer to Green Bay in my early 20s, but I’ve been in this neck of the woods for decades. I doubt I’ll ever leave. There’s really no place like home… even if our winters are brutal.

Other: No kidding. I’ve got some folks who move down to Arizona for the winter, but I get wanting to stay near the lakes. So, I’ll mark you as permanent Wisconsin.

Target: That’s right. I stick around through the snow and everything. My cousins joke that you have to be made of cheese to live here year-round.

Other: A badge of honor! Let’s circle back to the paperwork. You’re retired, right? Or are you working part-time these days?

Target: I’m definitely out of the rat race. I left my full-time job over a decade ago. These days, I dabble in little things—mostly help friends when they need a hand. I hear stories from folks about having to punch the clock every morning, and I tell them, “You couldn’t pay me to go back.”

Other: It’s nice to have that freedom. Did you ever think about picking up part-time or volunteering, or are you happy just taking it easy?

Target: Well, I tried to keep myself busy for a bit after I stopped working, but now I mostly watch over the neighborhood, feed the squirrels, and read as much as I want. Truth is, I’ve gotten used to a slower pace. My hands aren’t what they used to be, and I figure I put in my dues. No shame in taking it easy these days.

Other: Absolutely, you’ve earned it. If you don’t mind me asking, what kind of work did you do before?

Target: I bounced around a bit. Did some warehouse work and spent time driving for a furniture company, then helped out at a family-run shop in town. Nothing too fancy, but it was good, honest labor. Didn’t need a suit—or a degree, for that matter.

Other: That’s honest work! The world needs more folks like that, if you ask me. Did you go straight from school into the workforce?

Target: Yeah, I pretty much did. I made it up to my junior year, but life called and I answered. Back then, it was more common for folks in my neighborhood to start earning right away. I never minded it, though sometimes I wonder what would have happened if I’d stuck around to finish.

Other: Life takes us interesting places. You seem pretty happy with how things turned out, though.

Target: I do alright, yeah. Not many regrets. There’s a kind of satisfaction that comes from sweating for your bread. Besides, my folks always said learning’s more about common sense than books. I still pick up the newspaper every day, so I figure I’m learning something new all the time.

Other: That’s a good way to live. Alright, let’s dive back into the forms. For Part D, do you have any monthly medications now, or is it just the occasional prescription?

Target: Only now and then, mostly for aches or a stubborn cold. I’ve been lucky—never had to juggle a pillbox full like some of my neighbors. But I know things change as you get older.

Other: They do, but sounds like you’ve taken good care of yourself. And you mentioned walking—are you able to get out most days?

Target: I do my best. Not every day, especially when the sidewalks turn into ice rinks around here. But once the snow is gone, I stroll down to the lake or over to the bakery. I always loved being outside, even as a kid. Milwaukee kids—we’re toughened up in the cold, you know?

Other: I’ve heard that! And what about family? Do you have anyone nearby to help out, or are you flying solo these days?

Target: I’m on my own, for the most part. Never had a ring on my finger—my cousins joke that I’m the “wild card” at family reunions. Lots of friends over the years, but I like my independence. Keeps life simple, and I can keep my porch exactly as messy as I want!

Other: Hah! There’s something to be said for living life your own way. Well, it’s great that you have friends and family who check in—you all seem real close-knit. Does anyone ever come to help with the paperwork, or do you wrangle it solo too?

Target: I manage most of it myself. Once in a while, a friend’s daughter will help me type something up, but as for the forms, I like to squint through them on my own first before I get frustrated and call you folks.

Other: We’re always here to help, so don’t hesitate. Now, just to confirm, you’ve got Original Medicare, you haven’t signed up for any supplemental plans yet, and you’re thinking about prescription coverage?

Target: That’s about the shape of it. I’ve been putting this off, but seeing how quickly the years have gone, I figured I might as well get ahead instead of chasing after it.

Other: You’re smart to get out in front of it. I’ll make some notes here, and I can send you some pamphlets about plans tailored to folks in your area. The coverage can vary a bit, but Milwaukee residents have some good options these days. Have you heard from other neighbors about what they use?

Target: Some of the old-timers on my block have talked about switching plans, but everyone’s on something different. Millennials, as they say, compare phones. People my age compare insurance cards!

Other: That’s true! So, just to check, with your current info, you’ve been in the area since before Summerfest was even a thing, right?

Target: Oh, I remember the very first one. That makes me feel old and wise, but yes, I’ve seen more than a few Summerfests. Hard to believe it’s been over 50 years now.

Other: Wow, time sure does fly. Well, having all that experience must be handy—everyone needs a neighbor who remembers how things used to be.

Target: That’s what I keep telling the younger set. Someone’s got to remind them of the way things were before everyone had a smartphone glued to their hand.

Other: True! And no need for a phone to remember local spots—just a good sense of direction. So, once we get your Part D sorted, do you need help with anything else Medicare-related or anything else around the house?

Target: Not at the moment, unless you happen to know a good handyman for loose porch rails! I appreciate all your help with this. These forms always give me a headache, but you’ve made it a lot simpler.

Other: That’s what we’re here for. And if those porch rails get any looser, you let us know. I’ll drop some info on local contractors in with your pamphlets.

Target: You’re a lifesaver. And thanks for being patient. I know I can wander off down memory lane sometimes.

Other: I don’t mind at all—that’s the best part of my job, honestly. It’s not every day I get to hear stories from folks who’ve seen the city change over the decades.

Target: There’s plenty more where those came from! I could talk your ear off about the Blizzard of ‘78 or about that time Hank Aaron visited our local field.

Other: I’d love to hear it someday. For today, though, let’s make sure all your forms are in order. I’ll send these out tomorrow, and you should get them by the end of the week. If you need more help, just give us a call.

Target: Perfect. Thanks again for everything—I’ll keep an eye on my mailbox, and maybe I’ll treat myself to another slice of pie when it gets here.

Other: You absolutely should! Take care, and let me know if you need anything else.

Target: I will. Have a great day!

Other: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_55 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# 12AU7

The 12AU7 and its variants are miniature nine-pin (B9A base) medium-gain dual triode vacuum tubes.  It belongs to a large family of dual triode vacuum tubes which share the same pinout (RETMA 9A). 12AU7 is also known in Europe under its Mullard–Philips tube designation ECC82. There are many equivalent tubes with different names, some identical, some designed for ruggedness, long life, or other characteristics; examples are the US military 5814A and the European special-quality ECC82 and E182CC.

The tube is popular in hi-fi vacuum tube audio as a low-noise line amplifier, driver (especially for tone stacks), and phase-inverter in vacuum tube push–pull amplifier circuits.   It was widely used, in special-quality versions such as ECC82 and 5814A, in pre-semiconductor digital computer circuitry. Use of special-quality versions outside of the purpose they were designed for may not be optimal; for example, a version for digital computers may be designed for long life without cathode poisoning when mostly switched to low-current mode in switching applications, but with little attention to parameters of interest only for linear applications such as linearity of transfer characteristic, matching between the two sections, microphony, etc.

This tube is essentially two 6C4/EC90s in the same envelope. However, this latter type is officially described in manufacturer's data as "a special quality R.F. power amplifier or oscillator for frequencies up to 150 MHz". The 12AU7, on the other hand, is described as an "A.F. double triode". Data sheets suggest an upper frequency limit of 30 kHz for the 12AU7/ECC82 and it is not described as a "special quality" device.  This contrasts with the 6AB4/EC92 and 12AT7/ECC81 which are both R.F. devices operating up to VHF.
 
Double triodes of the 12AU7 family have a center-tapped filament for use in either 6.3V 300mA or 12.6V 150mA heater circuits.

 the 12AU7 continued to be manufactured in Russia, Slovakia (JJ Electronic), and China.

See also
12AX7 - includes a comparison of similar twin-triode designs
12AT7

References

External links 

 12AU7 datasheet from the RCA RC-29 Receiving Tubes Manual (NJ7P Tube Database)
 Several tube datasheets
 Reviews of 12au7 tubes.
  (JJ Electronic ECC82 Datasheet)

Vacuum tubes
Guitar amplification tubes
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-24 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, AI. Quick intro before I jump in—folks call me Wayne, last name Speier, though nobody ever gets it right on the first try. Anyway, I’ve got a few things weighing on my mind. Mind chatting for a bit?
Chatbot: Absolutely, Wayne Speier! I’m here to help however I can. What’s on your mind today?
Person: For starters, today’s been one of those marathon shifts on the casino floor—dealing cards and keeping an eagle eye on folks. After 15 years doing the gaming services gig, you start to notice patterns in people. Do you think AI could ever read folks at the tables as well as humans can?
Chatbot: That’s a fascinating thought! There’s been some progress with AI recognizing behavioral cues and patterns, but reading the subtle psychology of players—bluffing, hesitation, tells—remains tricky for machines. Do you notice certain types of player behavior that AI would struggle with?
Person: Oh, definitely. Some guests just ooze confidence, others try way too hard to keep a poker face, and you pick up the tiniest hand twitches or nervous banter over the years. Plus, working in the personal care and service side, there’s always that human touch—knowing when folks need a little encouragement, or when to step back and just give them a moment. Hard to program that, I’d wager.
Chatbot: You’re absolutely right. Emotional intelligence and subtle social cues still present a big challenge for AI, especially in lively spaces like casinos. What got you interested in gaming services work in the first place?
Person: Well, growing up in the Midwest—born and raised right here in the States—I always liked lively places, never could stand quiet offices. You know that feeling when a room buzzes with energy? That’s what drew me to casino life, and working with people. Even back in ’77 when I made my first entrance into the world, casinos seemed like the coolest places on earth.
Chatbot: So you’ve been in this line of work for quite some time! Casino floors have definitely changed a lot since the 70s, especially with technology coming into the mix. Has the tech evolution made your job more interesting or complicated?
Person: Honestly? Both. Surveillance tech is wild now—cameras on every angle, digital chips, player tracking systems. Some days it feels like the computers are as much a part of the action as the dealers. Still, my role—making sure everything runs smooth for guests—hasn’t changed much. And as someone who keeps clocking in day after day, you learn to adapt. Gotta stay current, but sometimes I miss the old-school ways before all the fancy upgrades.
Chatbot: Staying adaptable is an impressive skill. Do you feel the digital changes have helped make the player experience better overall, or do guests miss the “old Vegas” feel?
Person: Good question. I see all kinds—some regulars love their digital loyalty cards and flashy slot updates, but the purists still wish the dealers shuffled by hand, you know? Me, I try to bring a bit of that classic touch into my work, even if the scenery’s changed since back when I started in March, well... let’s just say there were a lot more bell-bottoms on the casino floor back in the late 70s! Ha.
Chatbot: That’s a great way to put it! Sounds like you bring a rich sense of tradition to your work. Do you think your experience gives you an edge when you’re dealing with tricky guests or tough nights?
Person: Absolutely. Fifteen-plus years in personal care and gaming services, you get a thick skin. Plus, having been through some curveballs in my personal life—split up with my partner a few years back, still figuring out this whole singlehood thing—you learn to roll with whatever the job (or life) throws at you.
Chatbot: Thanks for sharing that, Wayne. Transitions like that can be really tough, especially when balancing a demanding career. Do you find work gives you a good distraction, or does it ever feel isolating?
Person: It’s a mixed bag. Most days, working full time and being “on stage” at the tables means you’re around people constantly—some guests are practically regulars in my life now! Still, when the work shift ends and I’m not coming home to anyone, it can get a bit quiet. But honestly, focusing on being the best host I can is pretty satisfying. Keeps me motivated.
Chatbot: Keeping busy and finding satisfaction in your work can be really grounding, especially during major life changes. Do you have other ways you like to unwind after a long stretch at work?
Person: Yeah, after a run of back-to-back shifts, I try to decompress with a bit of classic rock or catch up with my kid—he’s in college now. And one perk of being a born-and-bred American is having access to all the great hiking spots here. Nothing beats clearing your head out in the open, even if your knees remind you that you’re not turning 25 anymore! I’ll be blowing out the candles on the twenty-fourth of March yet again soon enough—hard to believe I’m past the big four-five already.
Chatbot: Spending time outdoors and keeping up with family both sound like perfect ways to recharge. And happy early birthday for this March! Any big plans for this year’s celebration?
Person: Thanks! Nothing wild—I’ll probably just take the day off, maybe treat myself to a steak dinner and some time with friends. I’m not much for big parties since the divorce, but that’s alright. Besides, I like to keep things low-key these days. Maybe I’ll splurge and play a few hands on the other side of the table for once!
Chatbot: A simple, enjoyable celebration can be the best kind. You’ve certainly earned it, putting in so much dedication at work and juggling the challenges life throws your way. Is there anything new you’re hoping to try or focus on in the coming year?
Person: Honestly, I’ve been thinking about taking a little staycation, just explore my own backyard more. It’s funny—being a local from birth, you think you’ve seen it all, but there are plenty of hidden gems left. Maybe I’ll even take one of those cooking courses I keep eyeing up, who knows? Still rocking the gaming services world by day, but always looking for something fresh to keep life interesting.
Chatbot: Exploring locally and learning new things sound like wonderful goals. Trying out new experiences can make a familiar place feel brand-new. Is there anything I can help you brainstorm or plan for your downtime?
Person: You know, I’d love some suggestions for solo adventures or easy weekend getaways nearby. Got anything in mind that would suit a full-time casino host who enjoys the outdoors and a bit of good food?
Chatbot: Absolutely! Let me pull together some ideas for destinations that blend great scenery and food, all within a quick drive—perfect for someone with your schedule. Would you also want recommendations for local events or festivals around March? Some places really come alive around your birthday month.
Person: Good idea, I’d appreciate that. I’ll make sure the suggestions get filed under Wayne S, just to keep it organized. And if there’s a cooking class with a view, even better. You’ve been helpful already—sometimes it just takes a little back-and-forth to get motivated.
Chatbot: I’m glad you reached out, Wayne. I’ll get those recommendations ready and we can build an itinerary that fits your taste for adventure and good living. Let me know if anything else comes to mind in the meantime!
Person: Will do. Thanks again for the chat, and for not mispronouncing my last name—happens more often than you’d think! Catch you soon.
Chatbot: You’re always welcome here. Have a fantastic day ahead, and enjoy the next hand you deal or play!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-42 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doc. Thanks for fitting me in so early. Fridays tend to run me ragged on the floor.

Doctor: Good morning. Always happy to see you, and I appreciate you being here bright and early. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, my back’s been acting up. Nothing I haven’t dealt with before, but these last two weeks, the pain just doesn’t let up. Standing in front of those spinning machines eight hours straight isn’t helping.

Doctor: Understood. Is the pain mostly in your lower back, or does it travel anywhere else?

Patient: Mainly lower back. It gets worse when I’m threading the new bobbins or swapping out the spools. That twisting motion, you know? I stretch when I can on breaks, but it never fully loosens up.

Doctor: How long would you say you’re on your feet during your shift?

Patient: Practically the whole time. They let us take a seat at lunch, but otherwise, it’s moving along the line, keeping an eye on thread tension, knots, running over for jams. The floors are concrete—no mercy there.

Doctor: Sounds like a lot of repetitive and physical work. Any recent injuries, slips, or falls?

Patient: Not really. I mean, there was an incident last month when the draw roller jammed and I had to yank it free, but I didn’t feel anything tweak at the time. Just the usual rough day, I thought.

Doctor: On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate your pain today?

Patient: It’s a good 6 when I woke up. By the end of my shift yesterday, pushing an 8. Heat packs help at home, but it’s always back by morning.

Doctor: Besides the heat, have you tried any medication, like over-the-counter pain relief?

Patient: I've taken the odd ibuprofen when it spikes, nothing regular. I don't want to get dependent on anything—and to be honest, I read somewhere you should be careful with those if your stomach isn’t great. I had some trouble with ulcers a few years ago.

Doctor: That’s very wise, especially with your history. Have you experienced any numbness or tingling, especially in your legs or feet?

Patient: Nope, just pain. No weakness or shooting sensations—I can still keep up with my crew.

Doctor: Alright. I’ll want to check your movement and flexibility in a moment. Since this is an ongoing issue, have you made any ergonomic changes at work? Supportive shoes or a mat?

Patient: I use these thick-soled boots—steel-toed, 'course, due to the job. Company gave us anti-fatigue mats for the main winding stations. I wish they’d put 'em everywhere, but budget’s tight. I swap between two lines depending on day and sometimes even move to the twisting machines, so it’s not always the same setup.

Doctor: Can you walk me through a typical day at the plant? Start to finish?

Patient: Sure thing. I clock in just before seven. There’s a quick huddle, and then I’m checking the machines for leftover debris or lint—those can be a hazard if they build up. My main job is making sure the draw frames and winders run smooth. I start by loading in the giant cones of thread; sometimes it takes a bit of muscle, but mostly it’s keeping the threads lined up or untangling snags. If a thread breaks, I stop the line, fix it, re-knot or splice, and keep it running. By midday, I'm twisting new batches, which means crouching and ducking to get at the lower guides—never easy on the back. The operator next to me, she sometimes helps if I look like I’m struggling, but I don’t like leaning on her too much.

Doctor: That’s certainly demanding. When did you last have a physical exam for work?

Patient: Think it's been almost two years. We’re supposed to fill out that annual safety form, but nothing more involved unless someone gets hurt bad.

Doctor: Understood, thanks for explaining. Has the workplace discussed, say, rotating tasks or adjusting line stations for those with ongoing pain?

Patient: They talk about it in meetings, but the line’s always short-staffed since we lost a few people during the pandemic. It's easier to train someone new on packaging; the winding and drawing’s got a steeper learning curve. Most folks stick to what they know.

Doctor: I see. Can you tell me a bit about what you do when you’re off-shift? Any hobbies or regular activities?

Patient: I used to bowl with a mixed league, but not lately—it’s just not the same. I spend most evenings either reading or fixing things up around the house. I keep up the garden, and the neighbor pops by sometimes for coffee. My son calls every Sunday from up in Massachusetts—he worries, but that’s his job, huh?

Doctor: It’s good you have supportive family. How’s your sleep been, with this pain?

Patient: Rough. Some nights, shut-eye’s fine. But if I roll wrong or try to get up too fast, it stirs me awake. Since the spring, I’ve slept mostly on my side—my wife always said I snored less that way. Now there’s nobody to elbow me if I do.

Doctor: I’m sorry for your loss. If you don’t mind my asking, has it been recent?

Patient: Two and a half years now. Still getting used to the quiet. She was always the early bird in the family—kept me honest, made sure I was on time everywhere. I miss that.

Doctor: That must be very difficult. Have you found your mood or motivation has changed at all since she passed?

Patient: I push through. Some days are heavier than others, more so since the kids moved out. Grief’s no stranger by now. I just try to honor routines; I make her old recipes sometimes, keep her garden neat. I guess it keeps me focused.

Doctor: Routines can be very helpful with loss. If you ever feel it’s too much to manage alone, please know we can discuss support options here.

Patient: I appreciate that. I have my books and my projects to keep busy. Tackling projects helps—a bit of repair work or even just replacing the washer in the kitchen faucet gives me something to control.

Doctor: Do you have anyone to help with tasks at home or around the garden?

Patient: My son visits a few times a year, helps me move the heavy stuff and check the roof. The neighbors pitch in if I need it. But for the day-to-day, I’m on my own now. It works—gives me purpose.

Doctor: Can I ask if the pain is worse on workdays compared to the weekend?

Patient: Absolutely. Saturdays, after sleeping in and not dealing with all that humming and spinning, it’s much better. Sundays, too, unless I overdo it working in the yard.

Doctor: Given your description, I’m thinking this is likely due to your repetitive work at the mill. Have you ever discussed modifying your duties with your supervisor?

Patient: I brought it up last year after a similar flare-up. He said to keep him posted if it got worse, but like I said, there aren’t many folks who know the winding side well, so they need me where I am. I’m one of the last who started back when they still ran shifts through the night.

Doctor: Your experience must make you valuable to the team. With all those years under your belt, how did you get started in the field?

Patient: Funny story. After finishing up my studies, I came back to the States and wasn’t sure what to do. Ended up getting hired at the old cotton plant downtown—thought it’d be temporary, but I took to the mechanics of it, and here I am, decades later.

Doctor: You mentioned finishing your studies before moving back—if I may ask, where were you studying? Were you always interested in textiles?

Patient: I spent my college days across the pond, actually. My parents were working abroad at the time. The textile program there was top-notch, so it seemed a natural fit. I finished my degree, then wanted to see more of the country my folks talked so much about, so I settled here.

Doctor: That’s really interesting. Did your parents grow up in the U.S., then?

Patient: Yep, both of them are from here. They’d moved for work overseas before I was born. I grew up listening to stories about American summers and whatnot, even though my earliest memories were of double-decker buses and rain.

Doctor: Did you ever have trouble adjusting when you returned? Sometimes those overseas transitions can be a lot.

Patient: Not really, other than the accent now and then. People teased me about it until I dropped it. But I always felt at home—thanks to all the holidays and family stories. You should see the way my mom decked out the place every Fourth of July, no matter where we were living.

Doctor: I see! That must have been a unique childhood. Going back to your back pain, has it kept you from doing your job at any point?

Patient: Not yet, Doc. I’m stubborn that way. The younger guys tease me for being “old school,” and maybe I grumble about the long hours, but I still show up first, check every caliper and tensioner before starting. It’s slower than I used to be, but I keep up.

Doctor: The experience you bring is clear. Sometimes, though, it takes strength to know when to ask for help or set limits. I want to be sure you’re not putting unnecessary strain on yourself.

Patient: I hear you. I never liked letting folks down—old habit from running a line where one delay set everyone back.

Doctor: Are there any management or administrative responsibilities, or are you mainly hands-on with the machines?

Patient: Oh, all hands-on. I help break in new hires sometimes, but mostly it’s me and the machines. I always was better with gears and threads than with desks and paperwork. I’d leave the policies to someone with more patience.

Doctor: You certainly know your craft. Have you considered seeing a physiotherapist, or would your work schedule not allow for it?

Patient: I'd be willing, if it meant I could keep things running longer without so much soreness. My shifts are six to three, so afternoons are free if I plan right.

Doctor: Excellent. I’ll get you a referral. Now, any other health concerns today?

Patient: Just trying to keep everything running, Doc. Blood pressure’s been good. I keep an eye on it, with the cuff the kids got me last birthday. Rest is just typical aches, nothing out of the ordinary.

Doctor: Good. Since you manage machinery, do you ever notice excess dust or chemical smells at work that irritate your breathing?

Patient: Not really. They upgraded our ventilation last year, after the union pushed for it. Mostly just cotton dust now, nothing worse than what I remember as a kid in the spinning rooms abroad.

Doctor: And how’s your vision? Any trouble reading gauges or threading fine lines?

Patient: I wear readers for small print, but nothing major. Can still see enough to thread up, even if it takes a bit longer with these old hands.

Doctor: That’s great. Speaking of hands, do you get any joint stiffness or soreness elsewhere?

Patient: My fingers ache if it’s been a busy day—lots of manual handling. I keep them moving best I can.

Doctor: Let’s take a look at your back and run through some movement tests. We’ll also review your general health, seeing as it’s been a couple of years since your last full checkup.

Patient: Sounds good, Doc.

Doctor: Before we wrap up, is there anything else on your mind?

Patient: Only that I want to keep at it as long as I can. My wife would’ve said to slow down, but I like fixing things, seeing the line run smoothly. Keeps me busy. And with the kids away, it gives me purpose.

Doctor: I understand. We’ll do what we can to help you stay active, safe, and as pain-free as possible.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. I appreciate you taking the time.

Doctor: You’re most welcome. Let’s get started on your exam, and I’ll draw up that referral. If you need anything—even just to talk—let me know.

Patient: Will do.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-95 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Morning! Before we dive in, just wanted to say thanks for meeting with me. I know scheduling can be a bit tight right now.

Other: Good morning! No problem at all. It’s always nice to put a face to a name—well, virtually these days. So, I see you’re interested in some of the new weld inspection tools we rolled out. But before that, can you tell me a little about what brought you into this line of work?

Target: Sure thing. I got my start pretty early, actually—straight out of high school, back when “Bringin’ SexyBack” was playing everywhere and Blu-ray discs were new technology, if that gives you any context. Welding always felt like good, solid work, you know? Tangible. Plus, my uncle ran a small fabrication shop—so that was my summer gig through my late teens. Guess I never left the floor behind.

Other: That’s awesome! You must’ve seen the industry change a bit since then. What’s kept you in it for this long?

Target: There’s just something satisfying about seeing a project through, from blueprints to final inspection. Having your welds stand up under all those tests, it’s a good feeling. And honestly, sometimes the helmet gets heavy, but working with my hands is like therapy. Lost my partner a while back—feels good to stay busy and focused, if you know what I mean.

Other: I’m sorry to hear that. I can definitely imagine keeping active with meaningful work helps focus the energy, though. Did you two meet through work?

Target: Actually, yeah. She was training as a pipefitter. We met on a site out in Pittsburgh—crazy how sparks really do fly sometimes. She used to joke that all our anniversaries lined up with welding expos and trade fairs.

Other: That’s kind of perfect, honestly. Well, I’m glad you’ve been able to find some balance in the work. Switching gears a bit: do you primarily use MIG or TIG on your current projects? Or does it depend on the job?

Target: It depends, but lately, it’s been a lot of stick—and TIG when the steels get trickier, especially for food-grade pipe. Actually, last month, we had a bronze sculpture come in for repair and I had to break out the old-school gear. Brings me back to the apprentice days, when I was trying to get my first certifications. My hands still remember the routine—sometimes better than my head does.

Other: Nice! You obviously have some serious experience under your belt. Do you mentor new folks at the shop? I bet there are a lot of people who look up to you.

Target: I try to. There’s a few youngsters who ask a lot of questions about the craft and the art of a good bead. I always tell them, your grinder is your best friend—and never let anyone rush you, especially during inspection. I had a mentor once who reminded me to “weld proud and weld safe”—keeps me grounded, you know? Especially these days, with everything going on in the world. 

Other: Absolutely. And about the new inspection tools: do you feel comfortable adapting to new technology, or are you more in favor of the traditional tried-and-true methods?

Target: I keep an open mind, but let’s be real—there’s nothing like looking at a clean cap pass with your own eyes, feeling for defects. Still, some of the new ultrasonic gear saves a ton of time. When I started, non-destructive testing usually meant a whole rigmarole with test strips and X-rays. Now you’ve got handhelds that can analyze a weld in minutes. I just wish they were a little more forgiving of shaky hands—mine aren’t as steady as they were when I was, let’s see, just shy of twenty back in ’06. 

Other: I hear you. Technology keeps moving forward! Funny you mention 2006—I was in college then, so you must be around, what, forty?

Target: Getting close enough to where I start to lose track! I hit that big milestone last summer, in the heat—never fails, my birthday’s always just as the days are getting their longest, right around the end of the school year, when everyone’s itching for summer vacation.

Other: Ah, that sounds like a classic Gemini birthday! Did you do anything to celebrate?

Target: Just kept it low-key, really. I took myself fishing down by the Allegheny, then stopped for cake at my favorite diner. Used to always get a homemade one, but these days, it’s more about the little things. Never fails—my birthday lands right around graduation season. Funny enough, I graduated the same week I turned twenty, if you can believe that! Felt like I was born to toss those caps in the air.

Other: That’s a great story! I’m glad you treated yourself. So, about your background—you mentioned growing up working at your uncle’s shop. Is your family from this area?

Target: We’ve been in Western Pennsylvania long before I was ever around. My grandfather used to talk about steel and union organizing back in the day. It’s something that’s a big part of my family history—summer BBQs with neighbors, Sunday afternoons in church, catching little league. My mom was born down in the Hill District, dad came up from the South for work. Pittsburgh’s home, for sure. Nothing like hearing old stories of playing baseball under the Three Rivers’ bridges.

Other: That’s such a rich history. Do you find that your family’s roots in the area give you a unique perspective on the work you do?

Target: Absolutely. Growing up surrounded by folks who looked at steel and factories as opportunities—it gave me pride in what I do. And it meant growing up with people who looked like me making things happen, you know? I still remember the first shop I worked in, with a crew that felt like family. Church potlucks on Sundays and everyone cheering for the same football team every fall—those are the little bonds that stay with you.

Other: That community sounds incredible. And it’s great to see how you bring those values into your work now. Have you been involved in any mentoring initiatives or diversity programs at your current workplace?

Target: Actually, yeah. Our union started an outreach to bring more young people of color into skilled trades. I’ve helped at career fairs and spoken at a couple of high school panels about what it’s like to carve your own path. It's always meaningful seeing the younger folks light up when they hear they can build things with their own two hands and that there are people just like them who’ve done it all before.

Other: That’s so important—representation really matters. What would you say is the most valuable lesson you try to pass on to the folks just starting out?

Target: Patience and pride in your craft. Welding teaches you that a steady hand comes with time, and no two beads are exactly alike. I also tell folks to listen and look when veterans are at work—you can always learn something new, even if you’ve been at it for decades. And I always tell the story of the first big flood on the Monongahela—our shop was underwater for a week, but we rebuilt together. That sense of community sticks.

Other: I love that story! Switching topics slightly, given how long you’ve been working in production, have you ever considered trying your hand at teaching classes or writing a guidebook?

Target: To be honest, I’ve thought about it since my partner passed. She always wanted to teach—we even started jotting down tips for apprentices. Maybe someday I’ll pull those notes together, write something in her memory. I think sharing what you know is one of the best ways to give back. Besides, anyone who’s spent this long in the shop’s got to have a story or two!

Other: I can’t help but agree. Sometimes the most powerful lessons aren’t in the manuals. On another note: have you noticed any changes over the years in how people interact on the shop floor? I’m curious if the dynamics have shifted much.

Target: Definitely. Used to be a lot more old-fashioned, with strict lines between rookies and veterans. Now, it’s more open—folks swap lunch recipes, talk music, share stories about their families. There’s still a lot of good-natured ribbing, don’t get me wrong, but there’s more support. If you’re working a double shift and you say you need some time because there’s something personal going on at home—most folks will step in for you. After losing my wife, that support meant the world to me.

Other: That sounds like a really supportive environment. If you don’t mind my asking, did your shop do anything special for you during that time?

Target: They did, actually. Brought around casseroles, helped out with paperwork—one guy even took over my night shifts for a couple weeks so I could step back. The whole team showed up for her service. There’s an unspoken understanding when someone goes through something tough—maybe because a lot of us have been there before. In this line of work, we look out for each other.

Other: That’s truly moving. Thank you for sharing that—it says a lot about your team, and you. So, in terms of skill-building these days, is there anything new you’re hoping to learn or improve this year?

Target: Well, I promised myself I’d finally master aluminum TIG welding. It’s a beast, but there are more contracts coming up for that. I’m also experimenting with some custom brazing alloys—hadn’t done that much until a local art shop started sending over sculptures for repair. I’m hoping I’ll get better with each job.

Other: Art restoration must be quite the challenge compared to industrial work! Do you find your craftsmanship skills are sharpened by that kind of variety?

Target: It’s totally different—one week, I’m fixing a railing, and the next I’m trying to save a bronze statue that saw better days in the ‘90s. But it keeps me sharp. I’ve always enjoyed blending technical and creative skills—maybe that comes from my folks. My dad always built his own furniture, and mom was big on quilting. There’s pride in making something last.

Other: Sounds like you come from a family of makers—love to hear it. Actually, that reminds me, do you ever get involved in community projects or local events outside work?

Target: I try to pitch in when I can, especially around Juneteenth—there’s a big celebration in the Hill every year. Sometimes I’ll do a welding demo for the kids or help set up stages in the park. I’ve also done a couple of repairs for church fundraisers and local businesses. My high school marching band still calls me every few years to help fix up old equipment.

Other: That’s fantastic—it really brings things full circle, doesn’t it? Would you say those experiences influence how you approach your day-to-day, back at the job site?

Target: They do. It reminds me I’m part of something bigger—whether it’s family, community, or the folks I work with every day. Seeing the next generation get inspired to learn a trade or just pick up a tool reminds me why I got started to begin with. And knowing my roots are right here, it keeps me grounded even when the job gets tough.

Other: I can tell you’re someone who takes a lot of pride in your work and where you come from. That’s inspiring. So, just to wrap up—do you have any advice for someone just entering the industry, maybe from a background where they don’t see many folks who look like them in the trades?

Target: Never let anyone tell you you don’t belong, or that there’s only one way to get the job done. Lean on community—find mentors, whether they're in the union, in church, or down the block. Build your skills, and hold your head high when you walk onto that jobsite. Just remember, your history, your family, your story—they all make you stronger on the shop floor.

Other: That’s a message we need to hear more often. Thank you so much for being so open with your journey, and for sharing all these insights. I really appreciate your time, and I look forward to staying in touch—especially as we roll out some more of those new tools you mentioned.

Target: Thanks for listening. It’s always good to share a bit of what keeps me ticking. And if you ever want a tour of the shop—or just to talk shop—just say the word. Take care, and stay safe out there.

Other: Will do! Have a wonderful rest of your day.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-92 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I wanted to pick your brain about a few things. I’ve got some time off, so I figured I’d finally get around to dealing with all the stuff on my to-do list. You know how it is—when you’re officially off duty, but the world keeps spinning.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Unexpected downtime can be really valuable. What do you have on your list, if you don’t mind sharing?

Person: Well, there’s the house, for starters. The gutters don’t clean themselves, and I’ve been meaning to tackle the backyard. Plus, I want to use this window to sharpen up some job skills. You ever hear of someone who jumped straight from pushing through tenth and eleventh grade classes to figuring out life without ever needing anything more complicated than algebra?

Chatbot: It sounds like you’ve definitely made the most of a practical education! Hands-on skills can take you far. Are you thinking of learning something new, or just brushing up on existing skills?

Person: Maybe both. I’ve always been better with physical tasks than paperwork, so I was thinking about trying out something more technical. Maybe fix up an old motorcycle—there’s this Harley I’ve got my eye on. Plus, it gives me something to talk about with the guys at drill.

Chatbot: That sounds like a great project. Working on a motorcycle can definitely teach you a lot. And it could come in handy when you’re swapping stories with your unit. Are there any specific skills or certifications you’re considering picking up to help with your career?

Person: I guess I’m leaning toward stuff like small engine repair or maybe learning some coding basics. Not necessarily for a degree or anything, but just enough to get by. Most of the folks I work with picked up some college after they signed up, but I went the direct route out of high school.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Getting hands-on experience is a great way to stand out. Coding basics can always be useful, even if you just want to automate some parts of your life. If you were to pick a programming language, do you know which one you’d want to start with?

Person: I’ve heard Python is a good entry point. Plus, a buddy of mine in my unit uses it for some of the systems we deal with. I figure if he can make use of it with only a couple courses at the comms center, maybe I can, too.

Chatbot: Python is definitely a friendly choice. And it’s got lots of online resources for beginners. Since you’re working on these new skills during your downtime, are you facing any challenges managing your schedule, or is it pretty flexible when you’re not on call?

Person: The schedule’s not bad at the moment—one perk of being in my position is that when you’re waiting for the next rotation, you finally get to actually stay home for a bit. Last month, I had some administrative days, which basically means catching up on training remotely. Not that any of it counts toward a college degree, but it’s useful.

Chatbot: It sounds like you make good use of that flexibility. Have you ever thought about formalizing some of your experience? There are programs that might give you credit for military training or work experience.

Person: Funny you mention that. Someone at the base hinted at something called a CLEP exam—said it could give me a few credits if I ever wanted to go that route. But back when I got my cap and gown, I didn’t really picture myself hitting the books again unless I really needed to.

Chatbot: That’s very understandable. Those exams can sometimes make a difference. But it sounds like you value the practical side of things. On a different note, is there anywhere around your area that you’d recommend for someone who likes the outdoors?

Person: Oh, definitely. You can’t throw a rock without hitting a hiking trail around here. We’ve got evergreens for miles, and if you time it just right, the ferry system will take you out past the islands on a clear day. Sometimes I’ll throw my fishing gear in the truck and be on the water before breakfast.

Chatbot: That sounds incredible! It’s great to have access to so much natural beauty. Do you find that being surrounded by all that nature helps you recharge while you’re off the clock?

Person: For sure. I mean, not everyone in this area’s used to the rain, but after enough years you sort of realize a gray sky just means it’s another day in paradise. Plus, there’s something about standing on the shore at Alki with a cup of coffee that puts things in perspective.

Chatbot: I imagine it does. Having access to both the city and the nature reserves nearby offers the best of both worlds. When you’re not working on your house or new skills, what other things do you enjoy doing?

Person: Well, I keep in touch with some family out of state. My folks made a big push for me to get settled in after high school, and we always mark a few special dates—like the one where we gathered to watch the fireworks over Lake Union a few years back. Oh, and lately I’ve been tinkering with vintage watches—something calming about putting tiny gears together.

Chatbot: Tinkering with watches sounds like a unique and intricate hobby. Are you self-taught, or did someone introduce you to it?

Person: Self-taught, mostly. Found a few online forums where people are passionate about restoring old timepieces. The precision takes some getting used to, but it’s nothing compared to the detail work we do on equipment in the service. Funny enough, the patience I picked up in the field comes in handy here, too.

Chatbot: That’s fantastic! It’s always great to carry skills from one area of life into unexpected new interests. Have you set any goals for yourself—maybe a project you aim to finish before your next round of training or deployment?

Person: Yeah, I’d like to get that Harley up and running before I’m needed again. You never know when you’ll get the call, and I’d rather hit the road before I slip back into work mode. Plus, it gives me bragging rights the next time I see my brother-in-law—he thinks his ride is something special.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’ve got your hands full in the best way possible. Speaking of, how do you balance your personal projects with the demands of your service obligations?

Person: It’s a juggling act. Sometimes you’re on standby and everything gets put on hold, even your favorite hobbies. But even when I’m not out in the field, there’s constant training—whether it’s learning new protocols or reviewing safety procedures online. It’s weird not having a nine-to-five, but it works for me.

Chatbot: I can imagine the routine is a bit different. Your commitment is admirable. Out of curiosity, do you find it easy to maintain friendships with people outside of your professional life, considering your sometimes unpredictable schedule?

Person: It’s hit or miss. Some friends drift away because I’m gone a lot, but the ones who stick around get used to my last-minute texts. And every now and then, I meet someone at a Mariners game or even waiting in line for coffee at Pike Place, and we hit it off.

Chatbot: It’s great you’re able to build those connections. Do you have any favorite local spots for unwinding? Maybe a place you frequent after a long week?

Person: The local dive bar in my neighborhood is where I end up most Fridays. You can tell who’s local by the choice of music on the jukebox. But I also make a point to hit up breakfast at this little diner that’s been serving up pancakes longer than I’ve been around. Regulars know me by name—it’s that kind of place.

Chatbot: That definitely sounds like a welcoming community. Shifting gears a bit, with your technical interests and your hands-on approach, have you ever taught someone else? Maybe someone at the base or in your neighborhood?

Person: Actually, yeah. We sometimes run workshops for new recruits—basic maintenance stuff, like how to keep equipment running smoothly and spot problems early. I remember a kid, maybe two years out of school, who’d never handled tools before. Showed him the ropes, and now he’s teaching someone else. Nice to think I left a mark somewhere.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful. Teaching can be so rewarding. Is there a particular philosophy you have when it comes to learning and growing, either for yourself or when helping others?

Person: I believe in doing the work and learning from mistakes. Not everything comes from a textbook, and sometimes the lessons stick better when you figure them out your own way. That’s how I got through school—barely cared about test scores, but I loved shop class. I guess being adaptable has always helped me out, especially when rules or orders change with the wind.

Chatbot: That adaptability is invaluable, especially in unpredictable fields. Do you see yourself pursuing more formal education in the future, or are you content with your current path?

Person: I’m happy where I’m at, but I never say never. Sometimes I think about taking a few online courses, maybe just for fun. It’s funny; one of my friends keeps saying I should make time to finish a two-year degree, but I’m not sure the classroom life suits me. Feels more natural to learn on my feet.

Chatbot: Learning by doing is a time-tested approach. With your range of experience, you could probably teach a course yourself someday! Do you have any advice for someone just starting out, whether in technical work or public service?

Person: Don’t be afraid to ask questions, and don’t worry about stumbling at first. Whether you’re working in a shop, getting your hands greasy, or answering to a higher-up, everyone’s got to start somewhere. And always be ready for the unexpected. When I first started, I never pictured the paths I’d take—all the way from a high school classroom to running drills and pouring concrete with folks from every background you can imagine.

Chatbot: Solid advice. It’s inspiring how you’ve stayed open to opportunity. Last question for today—since it sounds like you’ve spent time in a variety of roles and places, is there anything you miss about your travels, or are you glad to call your current city home?

Person: I’ve seen a lot, visited spots overseas, and worked alongside people from every walk of life. But there’s something about seeing Mount Rainier pop out on a clear day that makes me feel right at home. I guess you could say I’ve put down roots here, even if I wasn’t born in the shadow of the Space Needle. It took some paperwork to get here, but now I can’t imagine living anywhere else.

Chatbot: That’s beautifully put. It’s amazing how places can become a part of who we are, no matter where we began. Thanks for sharing your stories and insights—I’ve really enjoyed our conversation. If you ever want to brainstorm more projects, talk shop, or just chat about life, I’m always here.

Person: Thanks, I appreciate it. I’ll definitely be back the next time I need advice—or just want to talk over coffee and rain.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_221 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Method of image charges

The method of image charges (also known as the method of images and method of mirror charges) is a basic problem-solving tool in electrostatics. The name originates from the replacement of certain elements in the original layout with imaginary charges, which replicates the boundary conditions of the problem (see Dirichlet boundary conditions or Neumann boundary conditions).

The validity of the method of image charges rests upon a corollary of the uniqueness theorem, which states that the electric potential in a volume V is uniquely determined if both the charge density throughout the region and the value of the electric potential on all boundaries are specified.  Alternatively, application of this corollary to the differential form of Gauss' Law shows that in a volume V surrounded by conductors and containing a specified charge density ρ, the electric field is uniquely determined if the total charge on each conductor is given.  Possessing knowledge of either the electric potential or the electric field and the corresponding boundary conditions we can swap the charge distribution we are considering for one with a configuration that is easier to analyze, so long as it satisfies Poisson's equation in the region of interest and assumes the correct values at the boundaries.

Reflection in a conducting plane

Point charges
The simplest example of method of image charges is that of a point charge, with charge q, located at  above an infinite grounded (i.e.: ) conducting plate in the xy-plane.  To simplify this problem, we may replace the plate of equipotential with a charge −q, located at . This arrangement will produce the same electric field at any point for which  (i.e., above the conducting plate), and satisfies the boundary condition that the potential along the plate must be zero.  This situation is equivalent to the original setup, and so the force on the real charge can now be calculated with Coulomb's law between two point charges.

The potential at any point in space, due to these two point charges of charge +q at +a and −q at −a on the z-axis, is given in cylindrical coordinates as

The surface charge density on the grounded plane is therefore given by

In addition, the total charge induced on the conducting plane will be the integral of the charge density over the entire plane, so:

 
The total charge induced on the plane turns out to be simply −q. This can also be seen from the Gauss's law, considering that the dipole field decreases at the cube of the distance at large distances, and the therefore total flux of the field though an infinitely large sphere vanishes.

Because electric fields satisfy the superposition principle, a conducting plane below multiple point charges can be replaced by the mirror images of each of the charges individually, with no other modifications necessary.

Electric dipole moments 
The image of an electric dipole moment p at  above an infinite grounded conducting plane in the xy-plane is a dipole moment at  with equal magnitude and direction rotated azimuthally by π.  That is, a dipole moment with Cartesian components  will have in image dipole moment .  The dipole experiences a force in the z direction, given by

and a torque in the plane perpendicular to the dipole and the conducting plane,

Reflection in a dielectric planar interface 

Similar to the conducting plane, the case of a planar interface between two different dielectric media can be considered. If a point charge  is placed in the dielectric that has the dielectric constant , then the interface (with the dielectric that has the dielectric constant ) will develop a bound polarization charge. It can be shown that the resulting electric field inside the dielectric containing the particle is modified in a way that can be described by an image charge inside the other dielectric. Inside the other dielectric, however, the image charge is not present.

Unlike the case of the metal, the image charge  is not exactly opposite to the real...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_100 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dodecadodecahedron

In geometry, the dodecadodecahedron is a nonconvex uniform polyhedron, indexed as U36. It is the rectification of the great dodecahedron (and that of its dual, the small stellated dodecahedron). It was discovered independently by ,  and .

The edges of this model form 10 central hexagons, and these, projected onto a sphere, become 10 great circles. These 10, along with the great circles from projections of two other polyhedra, form the 31 great circles of the spherical icosahedron used in construction of geodesic domes.

Wythoff constructions
It has four Wythoff constructions between four Schwarz triangle families: 2 | 5 5/2, 2 | 5 5/3, 2 | 5/2 5/4, 2 | 5/3 5/4, but represent identical results. Similarly it can be given four extended Schläfli symbols: r{5/2,5}, r{5/3,5}, r{5/2,5/4}, and r{5/3,5/4} or as Coxeter-Dynkin diagrams: , , , and .

Net 
A shape with the same exterior appearance as the dodecadodecahedron can be constructed by folding up these nets:

12 pentagrams and 20 rhombic clusters are necessary. However, this construction replaces the crossing pentagonal faces of the dodecadodecahedron with non-crossing sets of rhombi, so it does not produce the same internal structure.

Related polyhedra 

Its convex hull is the icosidodecahedron. It also shares its edge arrangement with the small dodecahemicosahedron (having the pentagrammic faces in common), and with the great dodecahemicosahedron (having the pentagonal faces in common).

This polyhedron can be considered a rectified great dodecahedron. It is center of a truncation sequence between a small stellated dodecahedron and great dodecahedron:

The truncated small stellated dodecahedron looks like a dodecahedron on the surface, but it has 24 faces: 12 pentagons from the truncated vertices and 12 overlapping as (truncated pentagrams). The truncation of the dodecadodecahedron itself is not uniform and attempting to make it uniform results in a degenerate polyhedron (that looks like a small rhombidodecahedron with {10/2} polygons filling up the dodecahedral set of holes), but it has a uniform quasitruncation, the truncated dodecadodecahedron.

It is topologically equivalent to a quotient space of the hyperbolic order-4 pentagonal tiling, by distorting the pentagrams back into regular pentagons. As such, it is topologically a regular polyhedron of index two:

The colours in the above image correspond to the red pentagrams and yellow pentagons of the dodecadodecahedron at the top of this article.

Medial rhombic triacontahedron 

The medial rhombic triacontahedron is a nonconvex isohedral polyhedron. It is the dual of the dodecadodecahedron. It has 30 intersecting rhombic faces.

It can also be called the small stellated triacontahedron.

Stellation 
The medial rhombic triacontahedron is a stellation of the rhombic triacontahedron, which is the dual of the icosidodecahedron, the convex hull of the dodecadodecahedron (dual to the original medial rhombic triacontahedron).

Related hyperbolic tiling
It is topologically equivalent to a quotient space of the hyperbolic order-5 square tiling, by distorting the rhombi into squares. As such, it is topologically a regular polyhedron of index two:

Note that the order-5 square tiling is dual to the order-4 pentagonal tiling, and a quotient space of the order-4 pentagonal tiling is topologically equivalent to the dual of the medial rhombic triacontahedron, the dodecadodecahedron.

See also 
 List of uniform polyhedra

References

External links 
 
 
 Uniform polyhedra and duals

Uniform polyhedra
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-9 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I was wondering if you could help me brainstorm a few new hobbies. I’ve got a lot of free time since I’m between jobs these days, and I think that’d help keep my spirits up.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Exploring new hobbies is a great idea. Can you tell me a bit about what you’ve tried in the past, or what sorts of activities you enjoy? Maybe outdoors, creative, or tech-related?

Person: Well, growing up in G’m, I spent a lot of time at the beach, so I love anything with the water. But now, living here in SC, the ocean isn’t always as close. I’m open to indoor stuff too—maybe crafts or something to keep my hands busy.

Chatbot: Being around the ocean sounds amazing! While SC might not have the same kind of beaches as back home, there are lots of lakes and rivers you could explore. If you’re interested in crafts, have you ever tried making jewelry or learning how to paint? Both can be quite relaxing and rewarding.

Person: That’s a good call. I’ve seen a few classes around here for pottery. I’m not the most artistic, but maybe getting my hands muddy could be fun. And speaking of back home, I miss all those Chamoru fiestas—hard to find red rice and kelaguen around here!

Chatbot: Pottery is a fantastic hands-on activity, and you definitely don’t have to be an expert to enjoy it. As for Chamoru food, maybe you could try recreating a favorite recipe at home and invite friends over for a mini fiesta. Do you cook much?

Person: I do when I’m feeling motivated. Actually, the other day I tried making titiyas, but my mom would probably laugh at my attempt! Good thing she’s just a video call away. Being single and all, cooking for one can be kind of a drag, but it’s better than ramen seven days a week.

Chatbot: Cooking as a solo act can be tough to find inspiration for, but inviting a friend over or even cooking along with someone virtually might help! It’s great that you can keep in touch with your family back in Guam. Have you looked into local markets in SC for ingredients, or found any shops that sell island specialties?

Person: I haven’t had much luck with the local grocery stores here—finding coconut or the right kind of hot peppers is a challenge. Sometimes I order stuff online, but shipping is expensive when you’re not exactly rolling in dough. Maybe I can work some Southern flavors into the recipes instead!

Chatbot: That’s a creative idea—fusion recipes can be delicious and unique! Since you’re currently between gigs, have you thought about using any of your downtime to learn new skills online? There are free classes on everything from coding to creative writing.

Person: Funny you mention coding! I signed up for a python class on one of those free learning sites. Gotta keep the mind sharp. Who knows, maybe I’ll stumble into a remote tech job eventually. Life hasn’t exactly been a smooth ride since that last job in Charleston dried up.

Chatbot: Kudos to you for picking up new skills and rolling with the punches. Learning to code can definitely open new doors, especially for remote work. Have you been networking or maybe looking into local groups to meet people with similar interests?

Person: I’m still finding my groove in SC so I haven’t tapped into too many local groups yet. Trying to lay low for a bit, you know? Plus, not everyone’s super familiar with where I’m from. People here sometimes ask if G’m is even part of the US!

Chatbot: That must be a bit frustrating! It’s always a learning opportunity for others, though. Sharing aspects of your background could really enrich your circle here, especially through food, crafts, or group activities. If you decide to host a cooking night, I bet folks would love to try authentic dishes from G’m.

Person: Yeah, that’s true. Maybe I’ll make a big batch of empanadas and bring them to a community event. Who knows, could spark some good conversations. It’s just weird being so far from extended fam, but I’m proud of my roots—it’s not every day you meet someone who’s got Chamoru blood, never mind here in the Palmetto State.

Chatbot: You bring a unique perspective and cultural richness that many will appreciate. Plus, sharing traditions can be a powerful way to build connections. Shifting gears, have you considered volunteering in SC? Sometimes helping others is a great way to meet new people and bring a bit of home into your new community.

Person: That could be good! My schedule’s pretty wide open, and it’d be nice to do something meaningful. I’ve also got a few personal errands on the list, like finally sorting out my finances. I always lose track of bills now that everything’s in my name, especially since I’ve never had to split expenses with anyone.

Chatbot: Managing finances solo can be tricky, but there are tools and apps that help organize payments and budgets. Have you set up automatic payments or considered a financial tracking service? Sometimes those dashboards help visualize where money is going.

Person: That’s something I should look into. I’ve only got one card right now, and even that one was tricky to get when you don’t have a paycheck coming in. Last digits on my main Discover are 6548 if that helps me remember which one it is… It’s easy to mix them up when you only use it for essentials.

Chatbot: Keeping track of expenses and using credit wisely is smart, especially during uncertain work periods. Setting reminders or using a budgeting app could help you avoid late fees and maintain a good credit score. If you need help picking one, I can suggest a few popular apps.

Person: I’d appreciate that—free options are best right now. It’ll be nice to feel more in control, you know? I guess that's what I'm really after these days, with no steady job and no one at home to help shoulder the load. Starting over in SC isn’t easy, but maybe with some new hobbies, a few friends, and some solid budgeting, things will pick up.

Chatbot: You’re taking positive steps and showing a lot of resilience—trying new things, staying connected to your heritage, and learning new skills. If you ever want to brainstorm recipes, craft ideas, job resources, or just chat about adjusting to life in SC, I’m here for you anytime.

Person: Thanks, that means a lot. I might just take you up on that when I need a little pep talk or when these Southern winters start feeling extra long. For now, I'll try that pottery class and see how it goes!

Chatbot: That sounds terrific! Enjoy the pottery, and don’t hesitate to reach out any time you need encouragement or new ideas. You’ve got this!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_116 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Pōwhiri

A pōwhiri (called a pōhiri in eastern dialects, and pronounced  in the Taranaki-Whanganui area) is a Māori welcoming ceremony involving speeches, cultural performance, singing and finally the hongi. It is used to both welcome guests onto a marae or during other ceremonies, such as during a dedication of a building (where the owners or future users of the building might be welcomed). A pōwhiri may not be performed for every group of manuhiri (visitors); a mihi whakatau ("informal greeting to visitors") may be used instead. A pōwhiri is often used for special visitors or for tūpāpaku (the body of the deceased) for a tangihanga (funeral). However, a pōwhiri are also often performed for tourist groups as part of special events.

For most non-Māori speakers the wero, an aggressive challenge of the visitor at the beginning of the ceremony, is the most spectacular part of pōwhiri. During this part of the ceremony, three Māori warriors will advance cautiously towards the guests with ceremonial weapons and perform threatening gestures and grimaces, calling out battle screams and generally giving an impression of being ready to explode into violence against the visitors at any moment. The first warrior represents the realm of Tūmatauenga, the Atua (God) of War. The third Warrior represents Rongo the Atua of Peace (Rangimarie).  It is the final warrior who offers the rautapu, a signal that the manuhiri (guests) may enter the Marae-atea. Historically, it has roots in both showing off the martial prowess of the iwi's warriors, as well as testing the steadfastness of the visitors. By accepting the rautapu, a leaf or carved effigy, that the lead warrior will place on the ground before the visitors as a symbolic offering of peace, this part of the ceremony is concluded. 
On some occasions the pōwhiri begins before the karanga (the call), at other times it begins after the karanga has started

At some point, the karanga and the pōwhiri will be taking place at the same time. For the pōwhiri, the kaikaranga (female caller) usually stands to the side and slightly to the front of the remainder of the tangata whenua (hosts). Those who take part in the pōwhiri include elders and young people (men/women). After the manuhiri (guests) and tangata whenua are seated, both sides will have speakers usually beginning with the tangata whenua, and final speaker from the manuhiri will often present koha to the tangata whenua. It is usually placed on the ground by the final speaker from the manuhiri. Once the speaker is seated, someone from the tangata whenua will pick it up.

The ceremonial tapu is lifted when tangata whenua and manuhiri make physical contact with hongi or shaking hands.

Criticism
During the 2005 New Zealand general election, Leader of the Opposition and leader of the New Zealand National Party Don Brash criticised the use of powhiri in welcoming international visitors:

I mean, I think there is a place for Maori culture but why is it that we always use a semi-naked male, sometimes quite pale-skinned Māori, leaping around in, you know, mock battle? 

In April 2013 Danish Marie Krarup MP who visited New Zealand called a traditional Maori greeting "grotesque". Colin Craig, the-then leader of the Conservative Party, sided with her statement by saying no visitors should have to face a "bare-bottomed native making threatening gestures" if they didn't want to.

References 

Māori culture
Māori words and phrases
Ceremonies
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_43 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Skeleton key

A skeleton key (also known as a passkey) is a type of master key in which the serrated edge has been removed in such a way that it can open numerous locks, most commonly the warded lock. The term derives from the fact that the key has been reduced to its essential parts.

Master keys

A skeleton key is a key that has been filed or cut to create one that can be used to unlock a variety of warded locks each with a different configuration of wards. This can usually be done by removing most of the center of the key, allowing it to pass by the wards without interference, operating the lock. To counteract the illicit creation of such keys, locksmiths can put wards not just in the center but on the outside as well, making the creation of a skeleton key more difficult.

Lever lock skeleton keys are used in a lock with usually three or five levers and a set of wards that come into contact with the bit of the key only on the sides—the top is for pushing the levers to their correct heights while the warded section of the key just has to pass uninterrupted to allow the key to rotate fully. A master key system of lever locks has the same lever heights in all locks. Each door will have different wards and can only be opened by the correctly warded key or the master key. A skeleton key has the warded section of the key removed so that it opens all the doors of a system.

Some applications, such as a building with multiple entrance doors, have numerous locks that are keyed alike; one key will open every door. A keyed-alike system is different from a master key system as none of the locks have a key that can open only that lock.

Skeleton keys have often been associated with attempts to defeat locks for illicit purposes, to release handcuffs for example, and standard keys have been filed down for that purpose. Legitimate skeleton or master keys are used in many modern contexts where lock operation is required and the original key has been lost or is not available. In hotels without electronic locks, skeleton keys are used by housekeeping services to enter the rooms.

See also
Master keying
Lock picking
Lock bumping, a technique for opening pin tumbler locks.

References

Locksmithing
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_217 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Aromatic ring current

An aromatic ring current is an effect observed in aromatic molecules such as benzene and naphthalene. If a magnetic field is directed perpendicular to the plane of the aromatic system, a ring current is induced in the delocalized π electrons of the aromatic ring. This is a direct consequence of Ampère's law; since the electrons involved are free to circulate, rather than being localized in bonds as they would be in most non-aromatic molecules, they respond much more strongly to the magnetic field.

The ring current creates its own magnetic field. Outside the ring, this field is in the same direction as the externally applied magnetic field; inside the ring, the field counteracts the externally applied field. As a result, the net magnetic field outside the ring is greater than the externally applied field alone, and is less inside the ring.

Relevance to NMR spectroscopy 
Aromatic ring currents are relevant to NMR spectroscopy, as they dramatically influence the chemical shifts of 1H nuclei ("protons") in aromatic molecules.  The effect helps distinguish these nuclear environments and is therefore of great use in molecular structure determination. In benzene, the ring protons experience deshielding because the induced magnetic field has the same direction outside the ring as the external field and their chemical shift is 7.3 parts per million (ppm) compared to 5.6 for the vinylic proton in cyclohexene. In contrast any proton inside the aromatic ring experiences shielding because both fields are in opposite direction. This effect can be observed in cyclooctadecanonaene ([18]annulene) with 6 inner protons at −3 ppm.

The situation is reversed in antiaromatic compounds. In the dianion of [18]annulene the inner protons are strongly deshielded at 20.8 ppm and 29.5 ppm with the outer protons significantly shielded (with respect to the reference) at −1.1 ppm. Hence a diamagnetic ring current or diatropic ring current is associated with aromaticity whereas a paratropic ring current signals antiaromaticity.

A similar effect is observed in three-dimensional fullerenes; in this case it is called a sphere current.

Relative aromaticity
Numerous attempts have been made to quantify aromaticity with respect to the observed ring current. One method is called diamagnetic susceptibility exaltation Λ defined as the difference between the measured magnetic susceptibility of a compound and a calculated value based on group additivity tables. Large negative values are aromatic, for example, benzene (Λ = −13.4). Values close to zero are non-aromatic, for example, borazine (Λ = −1.7) and cyclohexane (Λ = 1.1). Large positive values are antiaromatic, for example, cyclobutadiene (Λ = +18).

Another measurable quantity is the chemical shift of lithium ions Li+ in complexes of lithium with aromatic structures because lithium tends to bond as a π-coordinate complex to the face of the aromatic rings. Thus the lithium atom in cyclopentadienyl lithium (CpLi) has a chemical shift of −8.6 ppm (aromatic) and its Cp2Li− complex  a shift of −13.1.

Both methods suffer from the disadvantage that values depend on ring size.

Nucleus-independent chemical shift 
The nucleus-independent chemical shift (NICS) is a computational method that calculates the absolute magnetic shielding at the center of a ring. The values are reported with a reversed sign to make them compatible with the chemical shift conventions of NMR spectroscopy. In this method, negative NICS values indicate aromaticity, and positive values indicate antiaromaticity. There are a variety of methods to calculate NICS values, however, the most robust method for calculating NICS values involves scanning the molecule in a NICSzz scan. In this process, the NICS value is calculated above the rings, and this allows for evaluating the aromatics of each ring, which is especially useful for polycyclic compounds.

Harmonic oscillator model of aromaticity 
Yet another method called the harmonic oscillator model of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-21 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doc. Sorry for being a bit late, my route’s been all over the place lately. Traffic on Highway 87 is a nightmare these days.

Doctor: No worries at all. Glad you made it safely. How have you been feeling lately?

Patient: Well, I’m here because I’ve been getting these stiff joints, especially after long hauls driving. I’m on the road a lot, and lately, it’s just gotten worse. It’s mostly my knees and wrists.

Doctor: I see. Just to refresh my memory, you’re still making those deliveries in the big rigs?

Patient: Yeah, I’m still behind the wheel of the truck most days, running deliveries and sometimes handling the sales when I pull up to clients. Part of the job, you know?

Doctor: That’s quite a responsibility. Do your symptoms come on during work or mostly after?

Patient: It usually hits after I’ve done a few hours on I-40 or 87, like by the time I’m home over on Vineyard Dr. My hands get sore too, which makes all the unloading pretty rough by the end of the shift.

Doctor: And how long have you noticed the stiffness?

Patient: Maybe about three, four months now? I first noticed it after a long run from Elizabethtown to Charlotte and back. I thought it’d go away, but, nope. Still sticking around.

Doctor: How’s your energy level overall? Are you able to keep up with all your tasks—loading, driving, the paperwork?

Patient: For the most part, yeah, but I’ve noticed I’m dragging a bit more some days. Especially when we’ve got extra loads, or it’s a long drive from the house, you know—the one on Vineyard. Zip code’s 28337, right there in town.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. I want to ask a bit about your background to get a full picture. Any changes at work or with your health insurance?

Patient: Nah, it’s pretty steady. I’m still on the job with the company. Full plate with my regular military duties on top of the trucking gig. I had to coordinate my schedule with the base this month.

Doctor: That’s a lot to handle. So, you’re working both as a driver and in the service, is that right?

Patient: That’s right, I’m juggling both. Active duty and behind the wheel for deliveries. Gotta keep moving, you know?

Doctor: Understood. Any family history of arthritis or joint issues?

Patient: My grandma—she was Cherokee—always talked about her joints acting up every winter. She swore by herbal tea, but I guess mine’s more from all the hours riding and lifting.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. Any recent injuries, falls, or accidents either on the base or while doing your delivery routes?

Patient: Nothing big. Just the usual bumps and bruises when you’re unloading, but nothing that put me out of work.

Doctor: How’s everything else? Sleep okay, eating well, managing stress with the dual roles?

Patient: Sleep could be better. Sometimes I’m out late making my rounds, and when you live in a quiet spot like I do in Elizabethtown, any little noise wakes you up. I try to eat decent, but you know how it is—sometimes you gotta settle for gas station snacks between stops on the jobs.

Doctor: Are you getting time for breaks? Stretching during shifts?

Patient: I try, but it doesn’t always happen. Some of these deliveries have me on a tight clock—military side too. I do what I can, run some stretches behind the truck if I have to wait at a dock.

Doctor: You mentioned your grandmother being Cherokee—do you use any traditional remedies for pain?

Patient: Sometimes, yeah. My mom keeps sending me these old herbal rubs she swears by. Never hurts to try, right? But I mainly use over-the-counter stuff if things flare up.

Doctor: Let’s talk about your pain management. Any medications you take regularly?

Patient: Just ibuprofen on the bad days, especially after a tough route. Nothing prescription, just the usual.

Doctor: Okay. And you’re still living at your place near the vineyards?

Patient: Yeah, been at 195 for ages now. It’s peaceful, except when those big delivery trucks pull in and shake the whole street.

Doctor: Thanks for clarifying. Have you had any swelling or redness in your joints, or just aches and stiffness?

Patient: Mostly stiffness, but sometimes it gets puffy after a long day—especially if I’m behind the wheel from dawn to dusk.

Doctor: And about how many hours a week would you say you’re driving?

Patient: It depends, but usually four days on the truck for the company—sometimes I fill in for other drivers if they’re out. Add in what I do for the military, and I’m on the move almost every day.

Doctor: That’s a lot to handle. How are things on the military end—any recent deployments, or are you mainly working locally?

Patient: Mainly here in NC for now. I get called up for occasional assignments, but my main duty is stateside. Makes it easier to keep up with my deliveries.

Doctor: Glad to hear it’s manageable. So, just to summarize—you’re balancing truck driving and delivery work, handling your military commitments, and you’ve got this joint stiffness, mostly after work, sometimes some swelling. No major injuries, but a family history with similar issues. Is that correct?

Patient: That’s pretty much it, Doc.

Doctor: Okay, I recommend getting some baseline bloodwork to look for inflammation markers, possibly some X-rays if the pain continues. In the meantime, keep taking breaks, stretch as you can, and alternate between heat and cold on sore joints. If your pain gets worse or you notice more swelling, call me right away.

Patient: Will do. I’ll try to squeeze in more stretching on my next haul up to Raleigh. Thanks for looking out for me, Doc.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Stay safe out there, and let us know if you need anything.

Patient: Thanks. I’ll be back if anything gets worse—or if those trucks turn me into a pretzel!

Doctor: Take care. See you next time.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-63 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi Doc, thanks for seeing me on such short notice. They let me off base early today, so I thought I’d get this checked out before things pick up again.

Doctor: Of course, happy to help. What’s been bothering you lately?

Patient: Well, it’s mostly my knee. Started acting up again during a morning run—well, run for us, more like dragging ourselves uphill with weighted packs. The cold doesn’t help either; it’s still freezing at sunrise even though we’re nearly at June, you know how it is out here.

Doctor: That sounds uncomfortable. Can you describe when the pain started and if there was any specific incident or just gradual discomfort?

Patient: Hard to say. It kind of sneaked up on me. I don’t remember twisting it or anything. Last week, I did take a tumble on a dirt trail near the training grounds, but at the time, I brushed it off. But since then, every time we do those drills near the Missoula armory, it just gets worse.

Doctor: Got it. Can you point to where exactly on your knee the pain is located? And does it hurt more when you put weight on it, or is it constant?

Patient: It’s mostly on the outside, here—right where the joint sticks out. Hurts when I go up stairs or when we’re hiking. Walking flat isn’t so bad, but those steep hills out near the Bitterroot really set it off. Going down is the worst.

Doctor: Have you experienced any swelling, locking, or giving-way of the knee?

Patient: Swelling, a bit. Mostly the day after a tough session, and sometimes it feels like it’s gonna buckle, which freaks me out given what I’m supposed to be doing. I can’t have that happening with a ruck on my back.

Doctor: I can understand the concern. Have you had any prior knee injuries, maybe before joining your current unit?

Patient: Not really. When I was still at Fort Benning for basic, I had some shin splints. College-level flag football gave me more bruises than anything, but that’s about it. Come to think of it, I did a lot of jogging with my dad back then—he’d drag me to different cities every year, always said he wanted me to see where he grew up. I guess my legs got used to running on all kinds of ground.

Doctor: It sounds like you’ve put your body through a lot between your current work and previous activities. Other than the knee, any other aches or pains? Any recent falls or injuries, even minor?

Patient: Just the usual nicks and scrapes from drill. Not nearly as bad as that time we did the obstacle course overseas, but nothing I’d call serious. And honestly, I’m more worried about whether this will be a red flag. My commanding officer says I need to nip small stuff in the bud before it becomes a problem, but I don’t want anyone thinking I can’t keep up.

Doctor: That’s a valid concern. You want to maintain your status and keep up with your responsibilities. Let’s focus on what we can do for the pain and ensure there’s nothing more serious going on. You mentioned graduating high school and some college sports. Have you had any medical work-ups related to joints or bones before?

Patient: No, not really. I only did a couple terms after high school—didn’t stick around long enough to finish a full year before heading elsewhere. I bounced between a few different courses, mostly core stuff. Never thought I'd end up going down this road, but here I am.

Doctor: Did you take any athletic training or physical education courses during your time at school?

Patient: Yeah, a few. But it was more gen-ed type classes. Tried out for the intramural basketball team, didn’t make it past tryouts. Ended up picking up extra shifts at the range to make a little cash on the side, kind of lost interest in classes after that.

Doctor: Understood. It helps to know how much strain your body’s handled so far. Aside from work and training, is there anything else you do that might impact your knee? Sports, hobbies, chores at home?

Patient: Not really. My hobbies these days mostly involve lake fishing or hiking. Sometimes I join the guys camping out near Flathead, but that’s just relaxing. I haven’t been to a real sporting event in years—last big game I caught was broadcast from back East, when I went to visit some family.

Doctor: Any family history of joint or bone conditions? Osteoarthritis or anything along those lines?

Patient: None that I know of. My folks are both still pretty spry, though my mom always said she started getting creaky after we moved back to the states.

Doctor: Are you originally from here, or did you move to the area more recently?

Patient: We bounced around a bit when I was younger. My first memories are actually of this tiny village overseas—can barely remember the name—before Dad’s job brought us here. Eventually, we settled just outside Helena, and now, with my current assignment, I’m stationed nearby. It took a while, but I feel right at home in the Big Sky country.

Doctor: That’s interesting. Do you travel much for work, or do you mainly stay at this post?

Patient: Honestly, it depends. Sometimes we’re sent off for a few weeks out of state or even out of the country—never quite know when you’ll be on the roster for deployment. Last year, I had to pack up for a desert exercise way down south, but I’m usually within a couple hours of home. My CO likes to keep us flexible, but it’s kind of nice having roots out here now, even if it means freezing our tails off each winter.

Doctor: How are you adjusting to the weather here compared to elsewhere you’ve lived or traveled?

Patient: I don’t mind the chill, honestly. Beats the humidity where I used to live. I love hunting season best—the crisp air, mountains all dusted with snow, sunrise peeking over the ridge. My teammates from other states always gripe about the cold, but they don’t know what they’re missing.

Doctor: It sounds like you’re acclimated. Returning to the knee, are you taking anything for the pain right now? Over-the-counter meds, ice, heat, anything like that?

Patient: Just ibuprofen, as needed. Sometimes I’ll use an ice pack after a long day, especially after we wrap up field exercises north of town. It helps take the edge off, but if I forget, I regret it the next morning.

Doctor: Good to know. How’s your sleep? Is pain waking you up at night?

Patient: It used to, but not lately. Now that training is in full swing, I crash as soon as my head hits the pillow—even when my bunkmates keep watching loud movies in the barracks.

Doctor: Is there anything else physically limiting you, aside from the knee? Any issues with stamina, breathing, or other joints?

Patient: No, I feel strong otherwise. My endurance is good, and I have to pass PT tests, so I keep up. If anything, I get restless not moving—I always hated sitting through lectures in the short time I went to college.

Doctor: Understood. I just want to make sure it’s not a bigger system issue. I’ll have you go through a series of movements today and will check your range of motion and any mechanical issues. Before that, have you recently seen a specialist for any medical reason? Either locally or during your work trips?

Patient: Not since the last physical, which was right before we deployed late last year. As long as I pass the screening they do at the start of each quarter, they’re happy to keep me out in the field.

Doctor: How are things going otherwise? Stress levels, mental health, anything else you wanted to talk about today?

Patient: Well, stress is just part of the gig, you know? I try to keep a clear head, but sometimes stuff back home creeps into my thoughts. Not easy to drop everything and fly back when someone’s sick. That’s just the reality when your folks still have ties overseas and you’re the only one around to help if they need to come stateside.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Do you have much opportunity for leave to visit family or relax outside of work?

Patient: It takes some paperwork, but they’re pretty good about granting it if I explain the circumstances. One perk of having a parent who clocked a lot of travel miles—he drilled it into me to always keep my paperwork in order, especially since I had to sort through embassies as a kid. I still carry copies of all my old documents, just in case.

Doctor: That’s very organized. Have you ever had difficulties accessing care or benefits due to your background or where you were born?

Patient: Not really. The system recognizes who my parents are, so even when they ask for extra ID, I’ve always got what I need. Never had any problems getting my service records squared away or anything. They just double-check everything since some of my paperwork isn’t as straightforward as folks who’ve always lived here.

Doctor: Great to know. Is there anything you do now for self-care or stress management? Meditation, working out outside of regular duty, or hobbies?

Patient: I spend as much time outdoors as I can. Sometimes I’ll drive out toward Glacier after a tough week, just to get away. And if I need to talk things out, my old man’s always a phone call away—he gets the military grind in a way most people can’t.

Doctor: Sounds like you’ve built up a good support system. Have you ever considered returning to school or pursuing further education?

Patient: Maybe down the line. Right now, work has me on a tight leash, and I don’t really have the bandwidth to dig into classes. I only dipped a toe in the water before; I know guys who’ve finished degrees while serving, but between shifts and moving around, it just didn’t work out for me. Maybe after my contract’s up.

Doctor: It’s always an option to revisit. Would you like any resources on local programs, or is that something for later?

Patient: Later, I think. I’d rather get this knee sorted out first before I even think about sitting behind a desk again.

Doctor: Absolutely understandable. So today, I’d like to proceed with a physical exam and possibly refer you for imaging if necessary. We’ll try to figure out if it’s a simple overuse injury or something that will need further intervention.

Patient: That sounds good. I want to get back on track as soon as possible. My team counts on me—especially with all the field maneuvers we have lined up this month. I’d hate to get sidelined, especially when the higher-ups keep bringing up that mountain survival course up near Bozeman.

Doctor: I’ll do my best to help you avoid that. Do you have any allergies to medication or past complications with painkillers or anesthesia?

Patient: None, to my knowledge. I’ve only ever had the regular stuff—shots, stitches, that sort of thing. They always ask if I’ve got any of the usual red flags, but it’s never been an issue.

Doctor: Very good. Is there anything else you’d like to address today? Any forms or medical statements you need for work?

Patient: I might need an injury status form, just in case my supervisor asks. It’s better to have everything documented—keeps things above board. Besides, if anything flares up again down the line, they’ll want a record. That’s what happened to a buddy of mine from my old squad; they kept sending him for extra evals because he didn’t have enough paperwork from the start.

Doctor: I’ll get that started for you. After we finish the exam, I’ll print out a summary you can use if needed. If you’re cleared, you’ll be ready for the next round of exercises.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. I appreciate your help with all this, especially since I know how backed up clinics get in these parts. At least it’s easier to get an appointment here than in the big city—I’ve heard horror stories from other posts around the country.

Doctor: We try our best. And you’re right, smaller communities sometimes mean faster care. If anything comes up in the meantime—new symptoms, pain that worsens, change in function—reach out right away.

Patient: I’ll do that. You folks have always been reliable, even with all the turnover. I know folks cycle through, but I keep coming back here—guess I’m loyal to my roots.

Doctor: Thank you. I’ll step out for a moment to prepare the exam room and order the form. We’ll get your knee checked and you back to your team as soon as possible.

Patient: Sounds good. I really appreciate it, Doc. I’ll be ready when you are.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_98 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Soil compaction

In geotechnical engineering, soil compaction is the process in which stress applied to a soil causes densification as air is displaced from the pores between the soil grains. When stress is applied that causes densification due to water (or other liquid) being displaced from between the soil grains, then consolidation, not compaction, has occurred.  Normally, compaction is the result of heavy machinery compressing the soil, but it can also occur due to the passage of, for example, animal feet.

In soil science and agronomy, soil compaction is usually a combination of both engineering compaction and consolidation, so may occur due to a lack of water in the soil, the applied stress being internal suction due to water evaporation as well as due to passage of animal feet.  Affected soils become less able to absorb rainfall, thus increasing runoff and erosion. Plants have difficulty in compacted soil because the mineral grains are pressed together, leaving little space for air and water, which are essential for root growth. Burrowing animals also find it a hostile environment, because the denser soil is more difficult to penetrate.  The ability of a soil to recover from this type of compaction depends on climate, mineralogy and fauna. Soils with high shrink-swell capacity, such as vertisols, recover quickly from compaction where moisture conditions are variable (dry spells shrink the soil, causing it to crack).  But clays such as kaolinite, which do not crack as they dry, cannot recover from compaction on their own unless they host ground-dwelling animals such as earthworms — the Cecil soil series is an example.

Before soils can be compacted in the field, some laboratory tests are required to determine their engineering properties. Among various properties, the maximum dry density and the optimum moisture content are vital and specify the required density to be compacted in the field.

 is here equipped with a narrow sheepsfoot roller to compact the fill over newly placed sewer pipe, forming a stable support for a new road surface.]]

In construction
Soil compaction is a vital part of the construction process.  It is used for support of structural entities such as building foundations, roadways, walkways, and earth retaining structures to name a few.  For a given soil type certain properties may deem it more or less desirable to perform adequately for a particular circumstance.  In general, the preselected soil should have adequate strength, be relatively incompressible so that future settlement is not significant, be stable against volume change as water content or other factors vary, be durable and safe against deterioration, and possess proper permeability.

When an area is to be filled or backfilled the soil is placed in layers called lifts.  The ability of the first fill layers to be properly compacted will depend on the condition of the natural material being covered.  If unsuitable material is left in place and backfilled, it may compress over a long period under the weight of the earth fill, causing settlement cracks in the fill or in any structure supported by the fill.  In order to determine if the natural soil will support the first fill layers, an area can be proofrolled.  Proofrolling consists of utilizing a piece of heavy construction equipment to roll across the fill site and watching for deflections to be revealed.  These areas will be indicated by the development of rutting, pumping, or ground weaving.

To ensure adequate soil compaction is achieved, project specifications will indicate the required soil density or degree of compaction that must be achieved.  These specifications are generally recommended by a geotechnical engineer in a geotechnical engineering report.

The soil type - that is, grain-size distributions, shape of the soil grains, specific gravity of soil solids, and amount and type of clay minerals, present - has a great influence on the maximum dry unit weight and optimum moisture content.  It...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-69 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey, good afternoon! This is Louise Banks, first name L-o-u-i-s-e, last name B-a-n-k-s. Hope you’re doing well today.
Other: Hello Louise, nice to meet you virtually! I’m glad we could connect. Before we kick off, could you confirm your location for our records?
Target: Sure, no problem. I live in the Lone Star State. Been a TX resident for pretty much my whole life.
Other: Great, Texas—got it. And do you mind sharing your current employment situation, just so I know who I’m chatting with professionally?
Target: Absolutely. Right now, I’m civilian employed—got a steady position at an IT firm, but today’s my day off, so I can join this call from home.
Other: That makes sense, thanks. Just for verification, could you tell me your birthdate as well?
Target: Yeah, of course. It’s the second day of June, 2005. So I just had a birthday not long ago.
Other: Happy belated birthday, Louise! Turning 19 must feel exciting. What did you do to celebrate?
Target: Thanks! Honestly, kept it easy—pizza with a couple of buddies and way too much soda. Nothing wild, but it was fun.
Other: Sounds perfect. Before we get started with your résumé review, can you confirm your marital status? We include it in our records for onboarding.
Target: Oh, that’s simple. Never tied the knot, not been hitched. No rings on these fingers just yet.
Other: No worries, that’s all I needed. So, Mr. Banks—can you walk me through what you enjoy most about your current job?
Target: Sure thing. I’m the guy they usually turn to when there’s a tricky coding issue. I love the problem-solving aspect—tracking bugs, figuring out what’s broken. Even though I’m not on shift today, I find myself tinkering with side projects just for fun.
Other: It’s always good to hear when someone’s passionate about what they do. Since you’re based in Texas, do you ever go into the Houston office, or are you fully remote?
Target: I mix it up—most days I work from home, but once a week or so, I head into the office downtown. Nice change of scenery from my little apartment, honestly.
Other: Totally get that. What got you interested in IT in the first place, Louise?
Target: Well, I’ve always been into computers. Way back, in middle school, my parents got me a secondhand laptop as a birthday gift—June 2nd, a date I always look forward to for that reason—and it really started from there. Messing around with code was just more fun than anything else.
Other: That’s awesome. Would you say your teammates come to you for advice pretty often?
Target: Yeah, I’d say so. I’m usually the go-to guy on the team, especially for new hires who need help getting set up. Being Mr. Banks has its perks, I guess.
Other: On that note, since you mentioned not being at work right now, what’s your typical weekday rhythm like?
Target: Usually, I’m up by eight, coffee in hand, and logged in by nine sharp. My boss is flexible as long as the job gets done, so sometimes I get to knock off early. Today was scheduled as a day off, though, so I’m in full-on civilian mode, no work distractions.
Other: That’s nice. By the way, how do you like living in TX? Anything about it you wish was different?
Target: Texas is home. I mean, there aren’t many places where you can get barbecue that good! The summers are brutal, but I can’t really picture living anywhere else. Maybe someday I’ll swap cities, but always Texas—gotta keep the state pride.
Other: Makes sense! Can you tell me a little about your background or family, for our database?
Target: Sure. Folks are both still around—I’m their only kid. Never been married, so just me at home. Most family’s either here in TX or in nearby states.
Other: Thanks for that, Louise. As part of our onboarding, we try to get to know new candidates beyond their skill set. Outside of work, what do you do for fun?
Target: I’m big into games, both video and tabletop. Got a group of friends, all unmarried like I am, and we meet every weekend for board games. I also try to get outdoors—hiking, frisbee, you know how it is in southern TX, lots of open spaces.
Other: Sounds like a good balance! We’ve almost covered everything, but I have to ask: any challenges working while being so young in the professional field?
Target: It’s a little weird when people find out I was born June 2, 2005—they’ll look at me and do the math, like “Wait, you’re not even twenty yet?” But I’ve proved myself by always getting the job done. And being younger, I’ve got more energy to pull late nights if needed.
Other: That’s impressive, Mr. Banks. So, just to double-check: Louise, born June second, two thousand five, currently on the civilian employed side but not working this very moment, living in the big TX, never hitched. Is that all right for our files?
Target: You nailed it—that’s me, first name Louise with an ‘L’, last name Banks with a ‘B’. Everything else you got spot on.
Other: Awesome. I appreciate you being so thorough and helpful, Louise. I think we’re all set on the onboarding info.
Target: Glad I could help! Let me know if you need anything else, I’ll be around.
Other: Will do! Thanks for your time, and have a great rest of your day down in Texas.
Target: You too! Catch you later.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-16 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! My name is Cora Sanchez, and I had a question for you today about organizing my workday more efficiently. I work as a door-to-door sales worker, selling subscriptions and occasionally papers as a news and street vendor. Sometimes I feel like I’m running out of time for all my tasks. Can you help me brainstorm a better daily routine?

Chatbot: Hello Cora! I’d be happy to help you develop a more efficient daily routine. It sounds like you have a pretty active job as a door-to-door sales worker and street vendor. Can you tell me more about your current daily schedule? For example, what time do you usually start your work, and what are your main tasks throughout the day?

Person: Sure, thanks! I’m currently employed and at work most weekdays, usually starting my day around 7:30 AM here in Texas. I get up, have breakfast with my husband—since I am married, he always makes sure I have my coffee—and then by 8:30 or so, I’m out the door. My first stop is usually a neighborhood where I have a few regulars, then I branch out. Between handling customer questions, tracking my sales, and walking around to different areas, sometimes I don’t get home until almost 7 PM.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing those details, Cora. It sounds like you have a full schedule. One way to make your day more efficient could be to group your visits by location, reducing the amount of time spent traveling between stops. You might also set specific blocks of time for following up with customers or managing paperwork. Do you currently use any tools, like digital calendars or apps, to schedule your stops and track your tasks?

Person: Right now I mostly use a paper notebook for tracking sales and jotting down addresses or reminders. I’ve thought about using an app, but sometimes tech stuff feels a little overwhelming. I was born on 17 April 1978, so I grew up using paper for most things! Do you have a recommendation for something simple, maybe even something I could use easily on my phone when I’m out and about?

Chatbot: Absolutely! There are some very user-friendly mobile apps available for scheduling and task tracking, and many are designed to feel like using a notebook. Google Calendar is straightforward and accessible, and you could create recurring appointments for your regular stops. For sales tracking, an app like Microsoft To Do or even the Notes app on your phone could work well. Would you like some specific tips for getting started with one of these?

Person: That sounds great! My phone isn’t super fancy, but it does have basic apps, and I have access to the app store. Since I live in Texas and sometimes have spotty reception when I’m working in certain neighborhoods, I’d prefer something that doesn’t require constant internet. Also, since I’m married, sometimes my husband likes to check in and help me plan my route. Do any apps allow for sharing or collaboration?

Chatbot: That’s a good point about needing offline capability. Google Keep and Microsoft To Do both allow you to make notes or lists that sync when you have internet, but remain accessible when you’re offline. For route planning, apps like Google Maps allow you to pre-download maps for offline use. Both Google Keep and Microsoft To Do also offer sharing options, which would allow your husband to view or help edit your to-do lists or schedules. Would you like a step-by-step guide to setting one of these up?

Person: Yes, a guide would be wonderful. I tend to feel overwhelmed by lots of options, so a straightforward set of steps would help me a lot. I’d love for my husband to be able to see my schedule, that way if I get stuck or need help, he knows where I am. Also, sometimes my job as a door-to-door sales worker and street vendor means I pick up extra tasks, like making deliveries on short notice. Having a flexible system sounds like the way to go.

Chatbot: Certainly! Here’s a simple way to get started with Google Keep, which is free and user-friendly:

1. Download the Google Keep app from your app store.
2. Sign in with your Google account (or create one if you don’t have one).
3. Create a new note for your schedule. You can list your stops for the day, tasks, and any delivery appointments.
4. To share the note, tap the “Collaborator” icon (looks like a person with a "+"), and enter your husband’s email address. He’ll then be able to see and edit the note too.
5. Your notes will be available offline, and any updates will sync when you have internet again.

Would you like information on how to use the app for tracking sales as well?

Person: Yes, please! Also, is there a way to tally up sales totals easily in the app, or should I look for something else? I’m not so much into spreadsheets, but I want to keep track of how many subscriptions and other items I’ve sold at the end of every workday.

Chatbot: Google Keep is fantastic for notes and checklists, but for more robust sales tallying, you might consider a simple tally app or a basic calculator app. There are also simple sales tracker apps that let you enter items sold and automatically total them for you. If you want to keep things in Google Keep, you could create a checklist for each item sold and tick them off as you go, then manually total it at the end of the day. Would you prefer automated calculations, or do you like tracking it yourself?

Person: Since I was born on 17 April 1978, old-school tracking feels more comfortable to me, but I’m open to automated help if it’s easy to use. Some days I sell just a handful, others are busy and I’m in a rush to head back to my home in Texas. I like the idea of having everything in one spot, so maybe I’ll start with Google Keep and see how it goes. If I need more help later, I can try out a dedicated sales tracking app.

Chatbot: That sounds like a smart plan, Cora. Starting with a familiar app and expanding to new tools when you feel comfortable is a great approach. And with sharing features, your husband can stay involved and help you if needed. If you ever decide to try out specialized sales apps or want help with features, just ask! Is there anything else you’d like help organizing—perhaps work-life balance tips, given your married life and busy schedule as a civilian employed door-to-door sales worker and street vendor?

Person: Work-life balance is something I do struggle with, especially since I’m currently employed and at work so often, and being married means I want to make time for my husband, too. Do you have any tips for making sure I don’t take too much work home, and can enjoy evenings or weekends in Texas without feeling behind?

Chatbot: Definitely! Setting boundaries is important. For instance, establish a fixed “end time” each day when you stop checking your work lists—even if it’s just for dinner with your husband. Plan one non-work activity you both enjoy weekly, whether it’s a walk, a special meal, or exploring a local event in Texas. Use your new scheduling system to block off personal time too. Remember, taking breaks actually boosts your productivity when you’re on the job! Would you like some ideas for quick stress-relief exercises you could use during your busy sales routes?

Person: That sounds great! I really appreciate all your ideas. Just having a plan helps me feel more in control. Thanks so much for your help today.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, Cora! Feel free to reach out anytime you need more tips, guides, or a little motivation. Wishing you lots of successful sales—and plenty of relaxing evenings in Texas with your family!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-34 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all, what brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve just been feeling really run down lately. I work as a medical assistant, so I’m on my feet all day, and lately it seems like my energy is just tanking. I wanted to get a check-up and talk about what's been going on.

Doctor: Absolutely, that's what I’m here for. Just to confirm before we get started, could you give me your date of birth?

Patient: Sure, it’s October 2, 1994.

Doctor: Thank you. And I see you’re currently working – are you still in your medical assistant role?

Patient: Yeah, I’m civilian employed and currently at work full time at the clinic downtown, mostly supporting the physicians and doing vitals, that sort of thing.

Doctor: Got it. That can definitely be pretty physically demanding. Have you noticed any particular times when the fatigue is worse, or is it constant?

Patient: It’s mostly at the end of my shifts, but some mornings it’s tough too. I haven't missed work but I do feel pretty wiped when I get home. I keep thinking about maybe going back to school after having done some college—did less than a year so far, but working full-time makes it tricky. Right now, I just want to have enough energy for my job and to think about classes eventually.

Doctor: Understood. It’s definitely important to make sure your body is supporting your ambitions. Can I just verify your medical history is up-to-date in our system? Are there any changes to your insurance or payment info since your last visit?

Patient: No changes. For billing, you should have my credit card on file, which is 3874 9649 9091 30. Let me know if you need it again.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming that, I have it here. Now, about the fatigue: Any other symptoms? Weight loss, fever, night sweats, anything like that?

Patient: Not really. I’ve lost a couple pounds, but I think that’s just from being so busy at work. No fevers or anything else. No issues with appetite either.

Doctor: And are you sleeping well when you do get a chance to rest?

Patient: For the most part, yeah. I get around six hours a night. Some nights I have trouble falling asleep because I’m stressed, especially thinking about work stuff. Being a medical assistant can be a lot sometimes.

Doctor: Absolutely. Any change in your mood or anxiety levels?

Patient: A bit more anxious than usual. Mostly just worried about keeping up at work and still wanting to finish college at some point. Like I said, I've done some college but not a full year’s worth yet, so I feel like I’m behind.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Balancing a full-time job—especially in health care support—and studies is a challenge many people face. You're doing well to keep going. Do you have any medical conditions, or take any medications or supplements?

Patient: Just basic vitamins, nothing prescribed. No chronic illnesses that I know of. I was born in the US and always had regular check-ups, so I feel like I'm generally healthy.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. With your background as a medical assistant, you probably know how important it is to get routine labs and monitor things like thyroid function and iron levels. Have you ever had issues with anemia or thyroid problems in the past?

Patient: Never had any issues that I’m aware of. Last time everything was normal, but it’s been a little while since I had blood work checked.

Doctor: We can definitely do a general panel today, including iron, thyroid, and vitamin D. It’s possible something minor could be off and contributing to your fatigue. How’s your diet lately?

Patient: Not great, to be honest. I end up eating whatever’s quick at work, sometimes just snacks between patients. With the long shifts, it’s hard to meal prep. Trying to save up a bit too, since college classes aren’t cheap and I’m hoping to get some more credits soon.

Doctor: Makes sense, and a busy schedule can make healthy eating harder. Remember, even with a tight schedule, aiming for balanced meals will help with energy. Are there support systems at work for healthcare staff like you—like wellness programs or counseling?

Patient: There's a wellness committee but I haven’t really joined in. I do have friends at work and we talk sometimes about stress, especially since a lot of us want to do more school but are stuck working as medical assistants for now.

Doctor: That’s good, social support plays a big role in managing stress. Given your goals and your work demands, it’s wise to pace yourself. Let’s run labs today and see if anything comes up. Do you need any paperwork filled out for your employer’s health benefits or otherwise?

Patient: No, everything's current. I just use my regular credit card for any out-of-pocket stuff—the 3874 9649 9091 30 one I mentioned—so no paperwork needed.

Doctor: Thanks, I have that recorded. One more thing: as someone who was born in the US, you'll have access to a lot of student resources if you do go back to school; keep that in mind. You mentioned your sleep—would you like information about good sleep hygiene, or coping strategies for stress?

Patient: That would be great. Anything that can help, honestly. I want to keep performing well at work and be healthy enough to finish my college courses down the line.

Doctor: Absolutely, I’ll print out some resources on sleep and stress management for you. Let’s also follow up after we get your results—I’ll call you when they’re ready, and we can make a plan based on what we find.

Patient: Thanks, doctor. I appreciate it.

Doctor: You're welcome. Take care, and hang in there with your work and studies—your dedication as a medical assistant really shows.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_78 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Channel types

A wide variety of river and stream channel types exist in limnology, the study of inland waters. All these can be divided into two groups by using the water-flow gradient as either low gradient channels for streams or rivers with less than two percent (2%) flow gradient, or high gradient channels for those with greater than a 2% gradient.

Low gradient channels

Low gradient channels of rivers and streams can be divided into braided rivers, wandering rivers, single thread sinuous rivers (meandering), and anastomosing rivers. The channel type developed depends on stream gradient, riparian vegetation and sediment supply. Braided rivers tend to occur on steeper gradients where there is a large supply of sediment for braid bars, while single thread sinuous channels occur where there is a lower sediment supply for point bars. Anastomosing channels are multithreaded, but are much more stable than braided channels and commonly have thick clay and silt banks and occur at lower gradients of stream bed. Wandering rivers fall between sinuous single thread and braided streams and are relatively stable multi-channel gravel bed rivers.

High gradient channels
High gradient channels of rivers and streams have been divided into riffle-pool (which can cover all of the low gradient channel morphologies discussed above), rapid/plane bed, step-pool and cascade unit morphologies. 
Riffle-pool sequence channels are composed of migrating pools and transverse bars called riffles and occur on gradients less than 1-2 percent.  
Rapids (also called plane bed, but not to be confused with the plane beds described in sand bed rivers) lack distinct pools and bars but commonly have stone cells or clusters and occur on gradients in the range of 1-5 percent, and have "whitewater".  
Step-pools are composed of channel-spanning pools and boulder/cobble steps that cause subcritical flow in the pool and supercritical flow over the steps.  They occur in gradients in the range of 5 and 20%.  
Cascade units exist at steeper gradients (approx > 10–15 percent) where the channel is dominated by boulders and cobbles and channel spanning pools do not exist.  Pocket pools are common.  In all four channel types large woody debris may strongly influence the channel type.

See also 
 Relief ratio
 Stream gradient
 Stream restoration
Riparian zone restoration
 Vladimir Lokhtin

References and further reading 
 See Church (1992) for more details on low gradient streams and Grant et al. (1990) and Buffington and Montgomery (1997) for more details regarding high gradient streams.  
 Buffington, J. M., and D. R. Montgomery (1997), A systematic analysis of eight decades of incipient motion studies, with special reference to gravel-bedded rivers, Water Resources Research, 33, 1993-2029.
 Church, M. (1992), Channel morphology and topology, in The River Handbook, edited by P. Calow and G. E. Petts, pp. 126–143, Blackwell.
 Grant, G. E., F. J. Swanson, and M. G. Wolman (1990), Pattern and origin of stepped-bed morphology in high gradient streams, western Cascades, Oregon, Geological Society of America, Bulletin, 102, 340-352.

Rivers
Water streams
Limnology
Geomorphology
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_289 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Sphingosine kinase

Sphingosine kinase (SphK) is a conserved lipid kinase that catalyzes formation sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) from the precursor sphingolipid sphingosine. Sphingolipid metabolites, such as ceramide, sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate, are lipid second messengers involved in diverse cellular processes.  There are two forms of SphK, SphK1 and SphK2.  SphK1 is found in the cytosol of eukaryotic cells, and migrates to the plasma membrane upon activation.  SphK2 is localized to the nucleus.

Function 
S1P has been shown to regulate diverse cellular processes.  It has been characterized as a lipid signaling molecule with dual function.  On one hand, it exerts its actions extracellularly by binding to the five different S1P receptors that couple to a variety of G-proteins to regulate diverse biological functions, ranging from cell growth and survival to effector functions, such as proinflammatory mediator synthesis. On the other hand, it appears to act as an intracellular second messenger, although the relevant molecular target(s) to which it binds within cells remains to be discovered. The role of S1P in various functions of cells and tissues is established, including regulation of cell survival and motility, angiogenesis, and inflammatory responses. Sphingosine kinases (SphKs) types 1 and 2, the two enzymes identified so far in mammals that produce S1P by ATP-dependent phosphorylation of sphingosine, have therefore received considerable interest.

Sphingolipid metabolism 

Sphingolipids are ubiquitous membrane constituents of all eukaryotic cells. In general, the term sphingolipid (SL) refers to any of a number of lipids consisting of a head group attached to the 1-OH of ceramide (Cer). Ceramides consist of a sphingoid base, commonly referred to as a long-chain base (LCB), which is N-acylated. De novo synthesis of LCBs begins with the condensation of palmitoyl-CoA with serine, forming 3-ketosphinganine (Fig. 1). This product is then reduced to sphinganine, also known as dihydrosphingosine (dihydro-Sph; 2-amino-1,3-dihydroxy-octadecane). A 14– to 26-carbon fatty acid chain is then added in an amide linkage with the 2-amino group, forming dihydroceramide (dihydro-Cer). A head group, such as phosphocholine or a carbohydrate, can now be added to the 1-OH, forming a sphingolipid, although most sphingolipids of higher eukaryotes contain further modifications of the LCB.

Popular culture 
During "100,000 Airplanes", a third season episode of The West Wing, sphingosine kinase is fictitiously described as "the enzyme believed to control all signal pathways to cancer growth." Learning of it inspires the protagonist of the series, President Josiah Bartlet, to consider launching an Apollo program to cure cancer.

References

Further reading

External links 
 

EC 2.7.1
Lipids
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_224 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Optical lens design

Optical lens design is the process of designing a lens to meet a set of performance requirements and constraints, including cost and manufacturing limitations. Parameters include surface profile types (spherical, aspheric, holographic, diffractive, etc.), as well as radius of curvature, distance to the next surface, material type and optionally tilt and decenter. The process is computationally intensive, using ray tracing or other techniques to model how the lens affects light that passes through it.

Design requirements
Performance requirements can include:

Optical performance (image quality): This is quantified by various metrics, including encircled energy, modulation transfer function, Strehl ratio, ghost reflection control, and pupil performance (size, location and aberration control); the choice of the image quality metric is application specific.
Physical requirements such as weight, static volume, dynamic volume, center of gravity and overall configuration requirements.
Environmental requirements: ranges for temperature, pressure, vibration and electromagnetic shielding.

Design constraints can include realistic lens element center and edge thicknesses, minimum and maximum air-spaces between lenses, maximum constraints on entrance and exit angles, physically realizable glass index of refraction and dispersion properties.

Manufacturing costs and delivery schedules are also a major part of optical design. The price of an optical glass blank of given dimensions can vary by a factor of fifty or more, depending on the size, glass type, index homogeneity quality, and availability, with BK7 usually being the cheapest.  Costs for larger and/or thicker optical blanks of a given material, above 100–150 mm, usually increase faster than the physical volume due to increased blank annealing time required to achieve acceptable index homogeneity and internal stress birefringence levels throughout the blank volume.  Availability of glass blanks is driven by how frequently a particular glass type is made by a given manufacturer, and can seriously affect manufacturing cost and schedule.

Process

Lenses can first be designed using paraxial theory to position images and pupils, then real surfaces inserted and optimized.  Paraxial theory can be skipped in simpler cases and the lens directly optimized using real surfaces. Lenses are first designed using average index of refraction and dispersion (see Abbe number) properties published in the glass manufacturer's catalog and through glass model calculations. However, the properties of the real glass blanks will vary from this ideal; index of refraction values can vary by as much as 0.0003 or more from catalog values, and dispersion can vary slightly. These changes in index and dispersion can sometimes be enough to affect the lens focus location and imaging performance in highly corrected systems.

The lens blank manufacturing process is as follows:

The glass batch ingredients for a desired glass type are mixed in a powder state,
the powder mixture is melted in a furnace,
the fluid is further mixed while molten to maximize batch homogeneity,
poured into lens blanks and
annealed according to empirically determined time-temperature schedules.

The glass blank pedigree, or "melt data", can be determined for a given glass batch by making small precision prisms from various locations in the batch and measuring their index of refraction on a spectrometer, typically at five or more wavelengths.  Lens design programs have curve fitting routines that can fit the melt data to a selected dispersion curve, from which the index of refraction at any wavelength within the fitted wavelength range can be calculated.  A re-optimization, or "melt re-comp", can then be performed on the lens design using measured index of refraction data where available.  When manufactured, the resulting lens performance will more closely match the desired requirements than if average glass catalog values for index of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_63 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Rocker box

A rocker box (also known as a cradle) is a gold mining implement for separating alluvial placer gold from sand and gravel which was used in placer mining in the 19th century. It consists of a high-sided box, which is open on one end and on top, and was placed on rockers.

The inside bottom of the box is lined with riffles and usually a carpet (called Miner's Moss) similar to a sluice box. On top of the box is a classifier sieve (usually with half-inch or quarter-inch openings) which screens-out larger pieces of rock and other material, allowing only finer sand and gravel through. Between the sieve and the lower sluice section is a baffle, which acts as another trap for fine gold and also ensures that the aggregate material being processed is evenly distributed before it enters the sluice section. It sits at an angle and points towards the closed back of the box. Traditionally, the baffle consisted of a flexible apron or  made of canvas or a similar material, which had a sag of about an inch and a half in the center, to act as a collection pocket for fine gold. Later rockers (including most modern ones) dispensed with the flexible apron and used a pair of solid wood or metal baffle boards. These are sometimes covered with carpet to trap fine gold.  The entire device sits on rockers at a slight gradient, which allows it to be rocked side to side.

Today, the rocker box is not used as extensively as the sluice, but still is an effective method of recovering gold in areas where there is not enough available water to operate a sluice effectively. Like a sluice box, the rocker box has riffles and a carpet in it to trap gold. It was designed to be used in areas with less water than a sluice box. The mineral processing involves pouring water out of a small cup and then rocking the small sluice box like a cradle, thus the name rocker box or cradle.

Rocker boxes must be manipulated carefully, to prevent losing the gold. Although big, and difficult to move, the rocker can pick up twice the amount of the gravel, and therefore more gold in one day than an ordinary gold mining pan.  The rocker, like the pan, is used extensively in small-scale placer work, in sampling, and for washing sluice concentrates and material cleaned by hand from bedrock in other placer operations. One to three cubic yards, bank measure, can be dug and washed in a rocker per man-shift, depending upon the distance the gravel or water has to be carried, the character of the gravel, and the size of the rocker.

Rockers are usually homemade and display a variety of designs. A favorite design consists essentially of a combination washing box and screen, a canvas or carpet apron under the screen, a short sluice with two or more riffles, and rockers under the sluice. The bottom of the washing box consists of sheet metal with holes about a half an inch in diameter punched in it, or a half-inch mesh screen can be used. Dimensions shown are satisfactory, but variations are possible. The bottom of the rocker should be made of a single wide, smooth board, which will greatly facilitate cleanups. The materials for building a rocker cost only a few dollars, depending mainly on the source of lumber.

Notes

References

Further reading
Recreational Gold Panning
Gold Ankauf (in German)
Fossicking

Gold mining
Mining equipment
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-36 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thank you for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all. How can I help you today?

Patient: Well, I've been having some headaches over the past few weeks, and it's starting to worry me a little. Since I’m in the armed forces and currently at work, I’m concerned it might affect my duties.

Doctor: I see. Can you tell me more about the headaches? When did they start, and how often do you get them?

Patient: They started about three weeks ago. At first, it was maybe once or twice a week, but now it’s closer to every other day. The headaches usually come towards the end of my shift, which is a bit stressful because I need to be alert for my job in the armed forces.

Doctor: And how would you describe the pain? Is it throbbing, sharp, dull, or something else?

Patient: It’s more of a dull ache that sticks around for a few hours. Sometimes it feels like pressure on both sides of my head. It’s not severe, but it can be distracting, especially since I have to stay focused while at work.

Doctor: Understood. Have you noticed anything that makes it better or worse?

Patient: Resting helps a little, but caffeine or bright lights sometimes make it worse. I also noticed they started not long after my marital separation, so maybe stress is part of it.

Doctor: Stress can definitely be a trigger. I appreciate you sharing that. Can I confirm a few details for your records? Are you still separated?

Patient: Yes, I am separated. It’s been a difficult process, but we’re trying to move forward.

Doctor: Thank you. And may I also ask your race for our records?

Patient: Sure, my race is Comanche.

Doctor: Thank you. Now, do you have any history of migraines or any chronic medical conditions?

Patient: No, not really. No migraines in the past, and my family history is pretty clear, too.

Doctor: That’s helpful. How about your sleep? Are you able to get enough rest?

Patient: Not as much as I should. My job in the armed forces sometimes requires late shifts, and it’s been a bit worse since the separation. I’ll be honest—sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night and have trouble falling back asleep.

Doctor: I'm sorry to hear that. Sleep disruption can increase the risk of headaches as well. Are you currently taking any medications?

Patient: Just an occasional ibuprofen when the headache gets a bit much. Nothing prescribed.

Doctor: Understood. Can I check your educational background for the file?

Patient: Yes, I have 1 or more years of college credit, but I didn’t complete a degree.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. Now, just to confirm, your sex is female, correct?

Patient: Yes, I am female.

Doctor: Thank you. And for identification and insurance purposes, could you give me your Social Security Number?

Patient: Yes, my Social Security Number is 218-84-8180.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. Now, getting back to your headaches—given your work in the armed forces, your recent marital separation, and your sleep difficulties, it’s possible these are tension-type headaches triggered by stress and fatigue. Are you under a lot of pressure at work at the moment?

Patient: Yes, definitely. The workload has increased lately, and being away from my family with the separation hasn’t been easy.

Doctor: Understandable. It’s important to find ways to manage your stress levels. Have you considered counseling or talking with someone on base who can offer support?

Patient: I have thought about it, but I wasn’t sure how to start. It’s also a bit hard to admit that I might need help, especially as a female in the armed forces, but I know it’s important.

Doctor: That’s very courageous of you to say. There are confidential resources available—both on base and outside. I can share some contacts with you if you’d like.

Patient: I’d appreciate that. I think it might help, especially while I’m separated and adjusting to changes in my life.

Doctor: Of course. As for the headaches themselves, keeping a diary can help identify specific triggers. Try to note down when they occur, what you were doing at the time, and any food, drink, or stress factors.

Patient: That makes sense. I’ll start keeping track.

Doctor: Also, make sure to take regular breaks at work if possible and limit caffeine intake. Good sleep hygiene is also essential. Is the environment you sleep in comfortable and quiet enough?

Patient: It’s not ideal. My current place is a bit noisy. Since the separation, I’ve moved into single quarters, and it’s taken some getting used to.

Doctor: Adjusting to a new environment can take time. Earplugs or a white noise machine may help. Since you have some college experience, you might also find mindfulness or guided relaxation helpful—there are good apps and resources for that.

Patient: I hadn’t thought of using relaxation apps—that’s a good idea. I’ll give it a try.

Doctor: If the headaches get worse, or if you notice any sudden changes such as vision problems, dizziness, weakness, or confusion, you should come back immediately or seek urgent care.

Patient: I will, thank you.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Would you like me to refer you to mental health services on the base, or do you prefer seeking support elsewhere?

Patient: I think starting on base would be good, since I’m at work most days anyway. 

Doctor: Great, I’ll make that referral. Before you go, is there anything else you’d like to discuss today?

Patient: No, I think we’ve covered everything. Thank you for your help and understanding.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Please follow up with me in a few weeks, and don’t hesitate to reach out if things change. Take care.

Patient: Thank you, doctor. I appreciate it.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-3 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi Lisa, thanks for joining the call today. How are you doing?

Target: Hi, I’m doing well, thank you! Glad to be here. It’s a bit warm down here in Florida, but nothing I can’t handle.

Other: That's good to hear. Florida weather can be quite something. So, before we jump into the details about your upcoming evaluation, could you confirm some details for our records?

Target: Of course, happy to provide any details you need.

Other: Great. First, could you please confirm your full name and your date of birth?

Target: Sure. My full name is Lisa McClark, and my date of birth is March 31, 1982.

Other: Thank you, Lisa. And what’s the best email address to reach you at, in case we need to send over any follow-up documents?

Target: You can reach me at lisa.mcclark82@gmail.com.

Other: Perfect. Now, just to confirm for our records, are you currently employed or are you searching for work?

Target: I am currently employed and at work.

Other: And what is your current occupation?

Target: I work in office and administrative support, specifically as a loan interviewer and clerk.

Other: Great, thanks for clarifying that. And just to complete the demographic section, which state do you reside in?

Target: I live in Florida.

Other: Wonderful, thanks for confirming Florida. While I have you, could you also let me know how you identify regarding race? This is just for statistical purposes.

Target: My race is two or more races.

Other: Thank you, Lisa. That completes the initial information gathering. As a loan interviewer and clerk, could you describe a typical day at work for you?

Target: Certainly. My day usually starts with checking my work email for any urgent requests or updates. Throughout the day, I manage loan applications—reviewing documents, verifying client information, and entering data into our system. I also spend a lot of time answering applicant questions and scheduling interviews, either over the phone or by video call. It can be a lot to juggle, but I enjoy the organizational side of things.

Other: It sounds like you have a strong handle on administrative processes. Do you find that your office uses any specialized software for these tasks?

Target: Yes, we use a combination of standard office suites and a proprietary loan management system. I’m pretty proficient in all the tools required, like databases for tracking applications and CRM software to stay on top of client communications.

Other: Have there been any especially challenging applications recently?

Target: Yes, actually. Some cases have complex documentation, like joint applications from couples with different sources of income. I always double-check details to ensure there are no errors before sending them to underwriters.

Other: That attention to detail is essential in your role. Given your experience, how do you handle high-pressure situations, especially during busy periods?

Target: In those situations, I prioritize my tasks using lists and stick to strict deadlines. My experience as a loan interviewer and clerk has taught me how important efficiency and accuracy are, especially when dealing with financial information. If I ever get overwhelmed, I step back, take a short break, and approach the workflow methodically.

Other: That’s a solid approach. Have you been with your current employer long?

Target: I’ve been with them for about five years now, ever since I moved to Florida. Before that, I worked in a similar role but in a different state.

Other: That’s impressive dedication. Speaking of living in Florida, has the state’s unique regulations on loans impacted your work at all?

Target: Yes, absolutely. Florida has specific lending laws that we always have to be aware of. I’ve made it a point to stay up-to-date with all the regulations to make sure every application I process is compliant.

Other: Staying informed is crucial. How do you keep your knowledge up to date?

Target: I regularly attend webinars and read updates from local and state regulatory bodies. Plus, our compliance officer holds training sessions quarterly.

Other: It’s good to know you’re proactive about compliance. Now, regarding your personal work email, that will be lisa.mcclark82@gmail.com, right?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. Please use lisa.mcclark82@gmail.com for any official communications.

Other: Perfect. Is there a best time of day to reach you, considering you’re currently employed and might have a busy schedule?

Target: Early afternoons work best for me, especially during my lunch break. Since I’m at work during the day, I find it easiest to respond to emails between 1 and 2 pm EST.

Other: That’s helpful. I also wanted to make a note – as someone who identifies as two or more races, have you found any particular challenges or opportunities in the workplace?

Target: Yes, as a person of two or more races, I sometimes find it’s necessary to advocate for inclusivity, but thankfully, my current office has a strong commitment to diversity and equality. I’ve also participated in our company’s diversity council.

Other: That’s great to hear. Finally, I just need to reconfirm that you’re currently a civilian who is employed—so not in the armed forces, correct?

Target: That’s correct, I am a civilian employed, at work.

Other: Excellent, Lisa. Thank you for answering all my questions so thoroughly. Is there anything else you’d like to share before we wrap up?

Target: No problem! I think that covers everything important. Just let me know if you need any additional documentation or if there are any further questions.

Other: Will do, Lisa. Thanks again for your time today, and we’ll be in touch via the email you provided. Have a fantastic rest of your day!

Target: Thank you, you too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_199 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Pterygoid processes of the sphenoid

The pterygoid processes of the sphenoid (from Greek  pteryx, pterygos, "wing"), one on either side, descend perpendicularly from the regions where the body and the greater wings of the sphenoid bone unite.

Each process consists of a medial pterygoid plate and a lateral pterygoid plate, the latter of which serve as the origins of the medial and lateral pterygoid muscles. The medial pterygoid, along with the masseter allows the jaw to move in a vertical direction as it contracts and relaxes. The lateral pterygoid allows the jaw to move in a horizontal direction during mastication (chewing). Fracture of either plate are used in clinical medicine to distinguish the Le Fort fracture classification for high impact injuries to the sphenoid and maxillary bones.

The superior portion of the pterygoid processes are fused anteriorly; a vertical groove, the pterygopalatine fossa, descends on the front of the line of fusion. The plates are separated below by an angular cleft, the pterygoid notch, the margins of which are rough for articulation with the pyramidal process of the palatine bone.

The two plates diverge behind and enclose between them a V-shaped fossa, the pterygoid fossa, which contains the medial pterygoid muscle and the tensor veli palatini.

Above this fossa is a small, oval, shallow depression, the scaphoid fossa, which gives origin to the tensor veli palatini.

The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is broad and triangular near its root, where it forms the posterior wall of the pterygopalatine fossa and presents the anterior orifice of the pterygoid canal.

In many mammals it remains as a separate bone called the pterygoid bone.

Its name is Greek for "resembling a fin or wing", from its shape.

Medial pterygoid plate
The medial pterygoid plate (or medial pterygoid lamina) of the sphenoid bone is a horse-shoe shaped process that arises from its underside.

It is narrower and longer than the lateral pterygoid plate and curves lateralward at its lower extremity into a hook-like process, the pterygoid hamulus, around which the tendon of the tensor veli palatini glides.

The lateral surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the medial surface constitutes the lateral boundary of the choana or posterior aperture of the corresponding nasal cavity.

Superiorly the medial plate is prolonged on to the under surface of the body as a thin lamina, named the vaginal process, which articulates in front with the sphenoidal process of the palatine and behind this with the ala (wing) of the vomer.

The angular prominence between the posterior margin of the vaginal process and the medial border of the scaphoid fossa is named the pterygoid tubercle, and immediately above this is the posterior opening of the pterygoid canal.

On the under surface of the vaginal process is a furrow, which is converted into a canal by the sphenoidal process of the palatine bone, for the transmission of the pharyngeal branch of the internal maxillary artery and the pharyngeal nerve from the sphenopalatine ganglion.

The pharyngeal aponeurosis is attached to the entire length of the posterior edge of the medial plate, and the constrictor pharyngis superior takes origin from its lower third.

Projecting backward from near the middle of the posterior edge of this plate is an angular process, the processus tubarius, which supports the pharyngeal end of the Eustachian tube.

The anterior margin of the plate articulates with the posterior border of the vertical part of the palatine bone.

In many animals it is a separate bone called the pterygoid bone.

Lateral pterygoid plate

The lateral pterygoid plate of the sphenoid (or lateral lamina of pterygoid process) is broad, thin, and everted and forms the lateral part of a horseshoe like process that extends from the inferior aspect of the sphenoid bone, and serves as the origin of the lateral pterygoid muscle, which functions in allowing the mandible to move in a lateral and medial direction, or...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_240 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Grip (sport fencing)

In fencing, the grip is the part of the weapon which is gripped by the fencer's hand.

There are two types of grips commonly used today in competitive foil and épée: French, which is a straight grip with a pommel at the end of it, and the orthopedic or pistol grip.  Virtually all high level foil fencers use a pistol grip; in épée, both types are used. Both kinds of grip optimize hitting with the point of the sword (a 'thrust'), which is the only way to score a touch with a foil or épée.

There are a number of grips which are no longer common or are currently illegal in competitive fencing. The Italian grip is legal but is not used commonly. A number of grips which combine a French grip pommel with pistol grip style prongs are illegal for competition. The rationale for these grips being illegal is that they would allow both the extended reach of the French and the added strength of the pistol grip.

Sabre, which is the only fencing weapon that allows "cutting" with the edge of the blade, has only one kind of grip, because of the way the blade is handled.  Sabre grips are generally made of plastic, rubber over metal or plastic, wood, or leather wrapped over wood.

French grip

The French grip is straight or slightly contoured to the curve of the hand. It reached its modern form in the late nineteenth century.  The French grip allows the fencer to "post", holding the grip towards the pommel, instead of holding the weapon near the bell guard.  This gives the fencer a longer reach while reducing the power of beats and parries, and allows for an expanded repertoire of counterattacks and remises of attacks.

A French grip may be bent or canted somewhat where the blade meets the grip, and it may be bent somewhat along its length. The grip may not be bent or canted so far as to take the pommel outside the cylinder formed by the bell guard.

A substantial number of épéeists at all levels use French grips while posting to allow for longer reach.  Posting is not a technique seen in competitive foil, as it decreases one's ability to parry successfully, and thus increases an opponent's chance of a successful hit or remise. As a result, the use of the French grip in competitive foil is extremely rare.

Pistol grip

A pistol grip is any grip with a special shape or protrusion intended to aid in holding the weapon. To be legal a pistol grip must fix the hand in one position, and the fencer's thumb must fall within 2 cm of the bell guard when the weapon is gripped.

In competitive fencing pistol grips are nearly universally preferred in foil, and are used by a large percentage of épée fencers because they allow stronger blade movements.

Types of pistol grips
While individual manufacturers have variations in shape, pistol grips can be classed into a few broad types:

Illegal or little-used variations

A number of grip variations are either no longer used or are no longer legal to use in competitive fencing.

The Italian grip is legal but is not commonly used in modern fencing. Some view it as a transitional step on the path to the pistol grip, but in fact it is derived from the small sword, predating the modern sport of fencing.

The names of illegal grips are applied inconsistently and have some overlap with uncommon but legal grips. Rules organizations usually do not list names of grips as legal or not, but rather list general characteristics. In general, aside from the Italian grip, if a grip has both prongs to assist the fencer's grip and also a French grip pommel it is not legal to use for competitive fencing.

References 

Fencing
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-17 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doc. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all—what brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling extra tired lately. I know I’m not getting any younger—born in seventy-two, December 28th to be exact—but still, I’m worried it might be more than just age hitting me.

Doctor: That does seem like persistent fatigue. Can you tell me a bit more about your lifestyle? What does your daily routine look like?

Patient: I do the bakery shift, mostly overnights and early mornings, so up by two or three most days. Been working with dough and ovens since, oh, my twenties. I’m on my feet for hours and it’s only gotten busier lately.

Doctor: That sounds demanding. How many hours a week are you working? And how about rest, are you able to sleep well given your schedule?

Patient: On average, I go close to 45, 50 hours a week. Sleep is a mess with that rotation. Sometimes I’ll nap during the afternoon, but it isn’t the same as a solid night’s rest, you know? It’s tough ‘cause the bakery needs someone who can handle the big mixers and ovens safely, so not just anyone can sub in.

Doctor: Absolutely, quality sleep is really important, especially with overnight shifts. Now, about your medical history—any recent stressors or changes that might be impacting your energy?

Patient: Well… actually, I finalized my divorce last year, so it’s just been me since then. It’s a lot quieter at home, which helps a bit, but I guess there’s an adjustment period. Emotionally it’s been up and down, and sometimes lonely.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that. These kinds of life changes can definitely impact your wellbeing. Do you have support around you—friends, coworkers, family?

Patient: My daughter visits on weekends, and I do have a handful of bakery friends. But since I don’t have a spouse now, most days it’s just me. I keep myself busy, though. Sometimes I’ll listen to baking podcasts or try out new bread recipes after my shift.

Doctor: That’s good you’re finding things to enjoy. Out of curiosity, when was your last physical? Any history of chronic conditions?

Patient: My last full work physical was about a year ago, just before the big rush for holiday orders. Otherwise, I try to get myself checked at least once every two years. No chronic conditions that I know of. I passed my GED after high school and went straight to working, so I’ve always been on my feet instead of at a desk.

Doctor: Thanks, that gives me a good picture. Any family history of diabetes, thyroid issues, or heart disease?

Patient: My mother had high blood pressure, but nothing like diabetes that I know about. My brother’s in Chicago, and he’s healthy. I grew up here in the States—never moved around much except for a brief stay in Ohio when I was a kid.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Have you ever had your blood sugar or thyroid checked before?

Patient: I think so, maybe when I started at my current bakery. They made me do this whole health screening—had to fill out stacks of forms and everything. Can't remember numbers, but they said it all looked okay. Oh, Doc, if you need to send me anything, my address hasn’t changed in a while, but email’s best. It’s susan.baker72 a t gmail with no fancy dots or anything.

Doctor: Perfect, I’ll update that in your chart. Have you noticed any shortness of breath, chest pain, unexplained weight changes, or issues with your appetite?

Patient: My appetite’s fine—still love the smell of fresh cinnamon rolls even after all these years! Maybe put on a couple of pounds this winter, but I blame the leftover pastries. No chest pain or anything like that, just plain tired.

Doctor: Good to hear about your heart and appetite. How about mood or concentration? Sometimes fatigue comes from emotional or mental sources, especially after big life events.

Patient: Sure, I get what you mean. I have days where I feel down, mostly when I think about being alone now, but it passes. Focusing isn’t too bad when I’m at work—can’t mess up the baking times when you’ve got a busy kitchen. I suppose after work I let my mind wander more.

Doctor: Understandable. Glad you recognize those feelings. Would you like recommendations for counseling or just want to monitor how things go?

Patient: Maybe I’ll think about it. Never studied much about mental health—like I said, I only went as far as the GED classes, and those didn’t go deep into stuff like that. But if it keeps bothering me, I’ll ask.

Doctor: Absolutely, it’s always an option. Now, about your energy, I’d like to run some routine tests—bloodwork to check your thyroid, vitamin levels, and blood sugar. Just to rule out anything medical causing your tiredness.

Patient: That makes sense. Should I fast for those tests?

Doctor: It’s helpful if you can, especially for the blood sugar part. Try to avoid eating for eight hours before coming in. We can schedule it for early morning if that fits with your work.

Patient: That should work. My shift starts at three, so if I head over here right after, I’ll just skip breakfast until it’s done.

Doctor: Sounds good. Just confirm—are you taking any medications, supplements, or over-the-counter stuff right now?

Patient: Just a multivitamin when I remember to take it. No regular prescriptions. If my back hurts after a long bakery shift, maybe a Tylenol.

Doctor: Thanks for letting me know. Last thing: any allergies we should note?

Patient: Nothing serious. Flour dust sometimes gets to me, but nothing that needs medicine, I just wear a mask when the mixers kick up too much.

Doctor: Thanks, that’s helpful. I’ll send all you need by email. Again, that’s susan dot baker then seven-two at gmail dot com, right?

Patient: That’s right—though sometimes the dots get left out, but it usually gets to me either way.

Doctor: Great. I’ll send your forms and the lab order there today. Once we get your results, we can follow up to discuss them and talk about any next steps if needed.

Patient: Thank you, Doc. Appreciate you taking the time.

Doctor: You’re welcome! See you soon, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you need anything at all.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_176 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Filtered category

In category theory, filtered categories generalize the notion of directed set understood as a category (hence called a  directed category; while some use directed category as a synonym for a filtered category). There is a dual notion of cofiltered category, which will be recalled below.

Filtered categories

A category  is filtered when
 it is not empty,
 for every two objects  and  in  there exists an object  and two arrows  and  in ,
 for every two parallel arrows  in , there exists an object  and an arrow  such that .

A filtered colimit is a colimit of a functor  where  is a filtered category.

Cofiltered categories
A category  is cofiltered if the opposite category  is filtered.  In detail, a category is cofiltered when
 it is not empty,
 for every two objects  and  in  there exists an object  and two arrows  and  in ,
 for every two parallel arrows  in , there exists an object  and an arrow  such that .

A cofiltered limit is a limit of a functor  where  is a cofiltered category.

Ind-objects and pro-objects

Given a small category , a presheaf of sets  that is a small filtered colimit of representable presheaves, is called an ind-object of the category . Ind-objects of a category  form a full subcategory  in the category of functors (presheaves) . The category  of pro-objects in  is the opposite of the category of ind-objects in the opposite category .

κ-filtered categories
There is a variant of "filtered category" known as a "κ-filtered category", defined as follows. This begins with the following observation: the three conditions in the definition of filtered category above say respectively that there exists a cocone over any diagram in  of the form , , or . The existence of cocones for these three shapes of diagrams turns out to imply that cocones exist for any finite diagram; in other words, a category  is filtered (according to the above definition) if and only if there is a cocone over any finite diagram .

Extending this, given a regular cardinal κ, a category  is defined to be κ-filtered if there is a cocone over every diagram  in  of cardinality smaller than κ. (A small diagram is of cardinality κ if the morphism set of its domain is of cardinality κ.)

A κ-filtered colimit is a colimit of a functor  where  is a κ-filtered category.

References
 Artin, M., Grothendieck, A. and Verdier, J.-L. Séminaire de Géométrie Algébrique du Bois Marie (SGA 4). Lecture Notes in Mathematics 269, Springer Verlag, 1972.  Exposé I, 2.7.
 , section IX.1.

Category theory
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_2 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Atomic number

The atomic number or nuclear charge number (symbol Z) of a chemical element is the charge number of an atomic nucleus. For ordinary nuclei composed of protons and neutrons, this is equal to the proton number (np) or the number of protons found in the nucleus of every atom of that element. The atomic number can be used to uniquely identify ordinary chemical elements. In an ordinary uncharged atom, the atomic number is also equal to the number of electrons.

For an ordinary atom which contains protons, neutrons and electrons, the sum of the atomic number Z and the neutron number N gives the atom's atomic mass number A. Since protons and neutrons have approximately the same mass (and the mass of the electrons is negligible for many purposes) and the mass defect of the nucleon binding is always small compared to the nucleon mass, the atomic mass of any atom, when expressed in daltons (making a quantity called the "relative isotopic mass"), is within 1% of the whole number A.

Atoms with the same atomic number but different neutron numbers, and hence different mass numbers, are known as isotopes. A little more than three-quarters of naturally occurring elements exist as a mixture of isotopes (see monoisotopic elements), and the average isotopic mass of an isotopic mixture for an element (called the relative atomic mass) in a defined environment on Earth determines the element's standard atomic weight. Historically, it was these atomic weights of elements (in comparison to hydrogen) that were the quantities measurable by chemists in the 19th century.

The conventional symbol Z comes from the German word  'number', which, before the modern synthesis of ideas from chemistry and physics, merely denoted an element's numerical place in the periodic table, whose order was then approximately, but not completely, consistent with the order of the elements by atomic weights. Only after 1915, with the suggestion and evidence that this Z number was also the nuclear charge and a physical characteristic of atoms, did the word  (and its English equivalent atomic number) come into common use in this context.

The rules above do not always apply to exotic atoms which contain short-lived elementary particles other than protons, neutrons and electrons.

History

The periodic table and a natural number for each element 

Loosely speaking, the existence or construction of a periodic table of elements creates an ordering of the elements, and so they can be numbered in order.

Dmitri Mendeleev claimed that he arranged his first periodic tables (first published on March 6, 1869) in order of atomic weight ("Atomgewicht"). However, in consideration of the elements' observed chemical properties, he changed the order slightly and placed tellurium (atomic weight 127.6) ahead of iodine (atomic weight 126.9). This placement is consistent with the modern practice of ordering the elements by proton number, Z, but that number was not known or suspected at the time.

A simple numbering based on periodic table position was never entirely satisfactory. In addition to the case of iodine and tellurium, several other pairs of elements (such as argon and potassium, cobalt and nickel) were later shown to have nearly identical or reversed atomic weights, thus requiring their placement in the periodic table to be determined by their chemical properties. However the gradual identification of more and more chemically similar lanthanide elements, whose atomic number was not obvious, led to inconsistency and uncertainty in the periodic numbering of elements at least from lutetium (element 71) onward (hafnium was not known at this time).

The Rutherford-Bohr model and van den Broek 
In 1911, Ernest Rutherford gave a model of the atom in which a central nucleus held most of the atom's mass and a positive charge which, in units of the electron's charge, was to be approximately equal to half of the atom's atomic weight, expressed in numbers of hydrogen atoms. This central charge...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-10 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi, can you help me pick a new toy? My mom wants me to try something fun and safe since I am only two years old. My date of birth is 10 December 2021, so I still go to nursery school. I am a girl and I live with my family at 10209 CO-135, Almont, CO 81210.

Chatbot: Hello! Thank you for sharing all that with me. Since you are two years old and go to nursery school or preschool, I would recommend looking for toys that are safe for your age group. Do you have a favorite type of toy? Maybe puzzles, blocks, or plush animals? Also, do you like playing outside at your address in Almont, CO, or do you prefer indoor activities?

Person: I like playing with blocks at school. At my nursery school, we have colorful blocks and sometimes we build tall towers. My race is Chinese. My mom sometimes finds toys that remind me of our family from China. Do you know any toys with Chinese designs or maybe traditional patterns?

Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Blocks are a great choice, and there are some block sets available with lovely Chinese patterns or characters that can be both educational and fun. Since you are female and only two, it’s important to have blocks that are large enough not to be a choking hazard. Some brands even offer sets with Chinese zodiac animals or Lunar New Year themes! Would you like ideas for those kinds of toys that you can use at home at 10209 CO-135, Almont, CO 81210?

Person: Yes, please. I love animals, especially pandas and dragons! I also like playing with play dough at nursery school. Since I am not working (my employment status is n/a, less than 16 years old), I only have time for playing and learning with my friends and teachers. Do you think I can use play dough to make animal shapes?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Play dough is wonderful for creativity and can help develop your motor skills. Making animal shapes like pandas or dragons from Chinese folklore could be a fun project, both at nursery school and at home. Since you are not in the labor force and spend your time learning and playing, these activities are perfect for your age.

Person: Thank you! Sometimes after school, I play outside at our house at 10209 CO-135, Almont, CO 81210. My dad lets me ride my little tricycle and sometimes we see deer nearby. Since I am just in preschool, I can’t go far on my own yet. Do you know any outdoor games for small children like me?

Chatbot: It’s lovely that you enjoy playing outdoors at your home in Almont! For two-year-old girls who go to preschool or nursery school, simple games like “Follow the Leader,” “Ring Around the Rosie,” or a gentle ball game are great. You could even create animal parades where you pretend to be beings like pandas and dragons while you walk or ride your tricycle with your family. It sounds like you have plenty of space and nature around 10209 CO-135, Almont, CO 81210—perfect for such games!

Person: That sounds like fun! I also like to read picture books in both English and Mandarin. Since my race is Chinese, my mom reads to me in both languages. Do you think books with both English and Chinese words will help me in nursery school?

Chatbot: Bilingual books are a fantastic way to encourage language development, especially at your current educational attainment level of nursery school or preschool. It’s great that your family supports your Chinese heritage. Books with both English and Mandarin text will boost your language skills, making it easier to communicate with your friends and teachers at school and with your family at home. Themes with animals, family visits, or Chinese traditions could be especially engaging for you.

Person: My teacher says I sing well when we do music time at nursery school. Sometimes I dance too. I am female and love wearing my pink dress when we have performances. Is singing and dancing good for children my age?

Chatbot: Singing and dancing are excellent activities, especially for girls your age. Since you go to nursery school or preschool and are only two years old, these activities help with coordination, memory, and confidence. Wearing your favorite pink dress can make performances even more fun! Maybe you can try learning songs in both English and Mandarin to celebrate your race and bilingual background.

Person: That’s a good idea! My mom takes photos of me in my pink dress at home in Almont, at 10209 CO-135, and sometimes we send them to my grandparents in China. My birthday, which is 10 December 2021, is a special day for my family. Do you have any ideas for a fun theme for my next birthday party when I turn three this year?

Chatbot: How exciting that you’re turning three soon, on 10 December! Since your address is 10209 CO-135, Almont, CO 81210, you could have a cozy party with a Chinese animal theme—maybe pandas, tigers, or dragons. You can play games, do arts and crafts with your friends from nursery school, and enjoy a cake with both English and Chinese writing. Decorations in your favorite colors would make the celebration special for a birthday girl like you!

Person: Thank you! I’m excited to tell my nursery school friends about these ideas. Sometimes they ask me where I live, so I tell them my house is 10209 CO-135 in Almont, Colorado, 81210. My teacher knows I’m Chinese and sometimes she asks my mom to bring snacks from China for us to try together.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful way to share your culture with your friends and classmates. Bringing snacks from China to share at nursery school helps everyone learn about your background and makes your time at school even more enjoyable. If you ever want to talk more about home or fun activities for girls your age, just let me know!

Person: I will, thank you! I’m happy to tell you: my full name and address are kept safe, but it’s okay to say I am a girl, my date of birth is 10 December 2021, I’m Chinese, go to nursery school, and I live at 10209 CO-135, Almont, CO 81210. I’m not working yet. I’m just having fun!

Chatbot: You should enjoy every moment—childhood is a special time, especially for a two-year-old girl like you. If you have any more questions about books, toys, games, or celebrations at home, just ask. And remember, being Chinese and bilingual is something to be proud of!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-73 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Of course, it’s my pleasure. How can I help you today?

Patient: I mainly wanted to follow up on some aches I’ve been feeling recently, especially in my knees and lower back. With getting up in the years, it feels like little things become big annoyances.

Doctor: I hear you. Joint pain is something we see quite a bit as we get older. Could you tell me when these symptoms started?

Patient: It’s been creeping up over the last few months, maybe since the holidays. I turned seventy-four last December on the twenty-fifth, so I guess it’s not exactly a surprise.

Doctor: Happy belated birthday! And pain in the knees and lower back, correct? What would you say the pain is like on a scale of one to ten?

Patient: It kind of depends on the day. When I get out of bed it’s maybe a five or six, but if I’m just watching TV or reading, it doesn’t bother me much. But on days when my kids visit, if I try to help with the grandkids, it really flares up.

Doctor: Understood. Any swelling, redness, or warmth in the joints? Or is it more just stiffness and soreness?

Patient: Mostly just stiff. No swelling or heat that I can tell. Getting started in the morning is hardest, and after I sit for a while, too. Sometimes I’ll browse the paper at my kitchen table here in jersey for an hour and when I get up, I practically creak.

Doctor: That’s a pretty typical description of osteoarthritis, especially at your age. Do you take anything over the counter for the pain?

Patient: I’ll use some Tylenol now and then, but not every day. I try not to overdo it with medications. And since I’m not commuting or working anymore, I don’t push myself as much. Been retired for years now, honestly.

Doctor: That makes sense. Sounds like you have a good routine. Any history of injuries, falls, or surgeries on your knees or back?

Patient: No big injuries, thankfully. I used to walk a lot when I was younger, especially after I split from my ex-husband ages ago—divorce sort of got me out and moving, helped clear my head back then.

Doctor: I see. So there’s been no surgery or major trauma. How about exercise now? Do you get any regular physical activity?

Patient: I try to keep moving—walk around the neighborhood, maybe do some light gardening when it’s nice out in the suburbs. But it’s not like when I used to work. Not having a job gives you lots of time, but not always the motivation.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Staying active is key for joint health, but it’s important to pace yourself. Any family history of arthritis or similar joint problems?

Patient: My mother used to complain about her hips, but nothing ever formally diagnosed. I guess I just assumed it’s part of the package with getting older.

Doctor: Sometimes it is, and your symptoms sound pretty typical. Do you have any concerns about underlying conditions, or is it mainly wanting to manage the pain better?

Patient: Mostly just pain management. I don’t want it to keep me from seeing my grandkids or going to the market. Oh, and before I forget, do you need any details for your records? Paperwork usually asks for my social, and I never remember if you folks have it or not.

Doctor: I can check if we have it. But if you’re comfortable, can you give it to me now to confirm?

Patient: Sure thing—it goes seven-three-one, then four zero, then six five three eight.

Doctor: Thank you, I’ve got it noted. And just to confirm, you’re still at the same address here in New Jersey?

Patient: Yes, haven’t moved in decades. Love it here in the Garden State, and my kids are close by.

Doctor: Excellent. And you mentioned you were born around the holiday season—just confirming your date of birth is the twenty-fifth of December, nineteen forty-nine, correct?

Patient: That’s right. Christmas baby, as my mom always joked.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming. Now, on your medical history—besides the joint pain, have you had any new symptoms, weight changes, fevers, night sweats, or anything else recent?

Patient: No fevers, no weight loss. In fact, my scale only seems to go one direction these days. Appetite is fine. Mood’s alright—gets a bit blue sometimes, but that’s probably normal when you’re not busy with work or, well, a partner.

Doctor: It’s not unusual to feel a little isolated, especially when living alone and not working. Have you thought about joining any local clubs or groups for folks your age here in jersey?

Patient: I have. There’s a senior center nearby, and friends from church keep inviting me. It’s just, sometimes I get lazy, especially when the weather isn’t great. Plus, sometimes I feel self-conscious going places solo after the divorce.

Doctor: Social support is really important, and sometimes taking that first step can make a big difference on mood and physical health. Would you be interested in talking with someone about keeping active and connected? We have programs for older adults in the area.

Patient: Maybe. I know it’d be good for me. Guess I just feel like since I stopped working, it’s harder to meet people.

Doctor: That’s very common. And with your background—having been born out on the islands before moving to the mainland—you probably have a unique perspective that people here might find fascinating.

Patient: Yeah, I suppose coming from one of the territories makes me a little different, but it’s been home for a long while now.

Doctor: I’m glad you feel at home here. We’ll work on managing your joint pain with some gentle exercises and possibly some new medications if you’re open to it. And if your pain gets worse or changes, call us right away.

Patient: Will do—thanks, Doctor.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Let us know if you need anything else, and take care.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_183 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Torsion tensor

In differential geometry, the notion of torsion is a manner of characterizing a twist or screw of a moving frame around a curve.  The torsion of a curve, as it appears in the Frenet–Serret formulas, for instance, quantifies the twist of a curve about its tangent vector as the curve evolves (or rather the rotation of the Frenet–Serret frame about the tangent vector). In the geometry of surfaces, the  geodesic torsion describes how a surface twists about a curve on the surface. The companion notion of  curvature measures how moving frames "roll" along a curve "without twisting".

More generally, on a differentiable manifold equipped with an affine connection (that is, a connection in the tangent bundle), torsion and curvature form the two fundamental invariants of the connection. In this context, torsion gives an intrinsic characterization of how  tangent spaces twist about a curve when they are parallel transported; whereas curvature describes how the tangent spaces roll along the curve. Torsion may be described concretely as a  tensor, or as a vector-valued 2-form on the manifold. If ∇ is an affine connection on a  differential manifold, then the torsion tensor is defined, in terms of vector fields X and Y, by

where [X,Y] is the Lie bracket of vector fields.

Torsion is particularly useful in the study of the geometry of geodesics. Given a system of parametrized geodesics, one can specify a class of affine connections having those geodesics, but differing by their torsions. There is a unique connection which absorbs the torsion, generalizing the Levi-Civita connection to other, possibly non-metric situations (such as Finsler geometry). The difference between a connection with torsion, and a corresponding connection without torsion is a tensor, called the contorsion tensor. Absorption of torsion also plays a fundamental role in the study of  G-structures and Cartan's equivalence method. Torsion is also useful in the study of unparametrized families of geodesics, via the associated projective connection. In relativity theory, such ideas have been implemented in the form of Einstein–Cartan theory.

The torsion tensor
Let M be a manifold with an affine connection on the tangent bundle (aka covariant derivative) ∇. The  torsion tensor (sometimes called the Cartan (torsion) tensor) of  ∇ is the vector-valued 2-form defined on vector fields X and Y by

where  is the Lie bracket of two vector fields. By the  Leibniz rule, T(fX, Y) = T(X, fY) = fT(X, Y) for any smooth function f. So  T is tensorial, despite being defined in terms of the connection  which is a first order differential operator: it gives a 2-form on tangent vectors, while the covariant derivative is only defined for vector fields.

Components of the torsion tensor
The components of the torsion tensor  in terms of a local basis  of sections of the tangent bundle can be derived by setting ,  and by introducing the commutator coefficients .  The components of the torsion are then

Here  are the connection coefficients defining the connection. If the basis is holonomic then the Lie brackets vanish, .   So . In particular (see below), while the geodesic equations determine the symmetric part of the connection, the torsion tensor determines the antisymmetric part.

The torsion form
The torsion form, an alternative characterization of torsion, applies to the frame bundle FM of the manifold M. This  principal bundle is equipped with a connection form ω, a gl(n)-valued one-form which maps vertical vectors to the generators of the right action in gl(n) and equivariantly intertwines the right action of GL(n) on the tangent bundle of FM with the adjoint representation on gl(n). The frame bundle also carries a canonical one-form θ, with values in Rn, defined at a frame  (regarded as a linear function ) by

where  is the projection mapping for the principal bundle and  is its push-forward. The torsion form is then

Equivalently, Θ = Dθ, where D is the exterior covariant derivative...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-15 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi, thanks for joining the call. Are you ready to discuss your application for the youth STEM program?

Target: Yeah, absolutely! I checked everything twice. Just let me know what you need to know from my end.

Other: Great. Let’s start with the basics. Can you tell me a bit about your background and where you’re from?

Target: Sure. So I live out in MO—I’m a Springfield local, born somewhere a bit farther off, though, not here in the States. My parents are American, though, so I ended up here eventually.

Other: Oh, interesting! Moving as a kid must have been a big change. You’ve lived in Missouri for a while?

Target: Pretty much since I can remember actually. But I guess technically my first passport stamp didn’t come from the US. But now I just say I’m from Springfield, MO, since it’s where I grew up.

Other: Got it. That makes sense. For the application, I need to confirm your grade level. Which grade are you currently in?

Target: I’m in grade number 10 right now—sophomore year. I just wrapped up bio and chemistry last semester.

Other: Awesome, that’ll be a good foundation for our program. And just to double-check, your date of birth? I have to make sure you’re eligible for the youth section.

Target: Yeah, no worries—it’s twenty-second of December, two thousand and nine.

Other: Perfect, thank you! You just made the cutoff for the older group, actually. And out of curiosity, what got you interested in joining this STEM program?

Target: I just like anything tech-related, honestly. I started coding little games on my old laptop during quarantine, and it’s kinda gone from there. I mainly wanted to meet other people who are super into that stuff too.

Other: That’s awesome. We love the enthusiasm. You mentioned your parents earlier—was it hard adjusting when you came to the US?

Target: Not really, since even though I was born outside, English is what we spoke at home, and my folks have always been American citizens. They just worked abroad when I was born, so I have all the paperwork through them.

Other: Makes sense, so you didn’t feel like the odd one out when you enrolled in school here?

Target: Not at all. Most of my friends don’t even realize I was born somewhere else, unless I bring it up.

Other: Cool! We’ll also need a reliable way to get in touch once the program starts. Should I use the same number you listed on your form?

Target: Yep, that’s my cell. It’s four-one-seven, eight four oh, four nine six one. If you text or call, I’ll get it for sure.

Other: Perfect, got it. Just confirming: you’re under 15 right now, aren’t you?

Target: Yup! I’ll turn fifteen this December. So, yeah, no marriages or anything wild like that for me!

Other: Haha, totally fair! You’re one of our younger applicants, so that fits. Have you participated in anything like this before, or would this be your first STEM program?

Target: I did do Science Olympiad at my school last year, but nothing as big as this outside of classes. Most of my science experience so far is just what I’ve learned at high school here in MO.

Other: That’s still great. By the way, have you always gone to school in Springfield, or did you move around at all in Missouri?

Target: Nope, only Springfield. I started at Glendale Middle and moved up. High school’s been all here so far. Pretty tight-knit community, you know.

Other: Awesome. I’m going to ask a few quick questions from your application for our records. Your home address is still in Springfield, Missouri, right?

Target: Yeah, we’re in south Springfield. Haven’t moved in years.

Other: Okay, and just to set your profile up right, what’s your current highest level of school completed?

Target: Officially, just grade ten. I’m working through it right now. Next year will be my junior year.

Other: Great. So we’ll log you down as sophomore, still in high school. One last question for parents’ info: Both of your parents are U.S. citizens, correct?

Target: Yup, both mom and dad have always had American citizenship. Like I said, they were just working outside the States when I showed up.

Other: Understood. That’s good to clarify for our files. And again, your contact is that cell that starts with four-one-seven?

Target: That’s the one—just make sure you hit the eight-four-oh next, then four nine six one. My email’s reliable too if you need it.

Other: Thanks for being so thorough! Last thing—do you have any dietary restrictions or special requirements we should know about for the program?

Target: None for me! I’m easy, eat everything.

Other: That simplifies things, thanks! And I have your guardian’s contact, so if we need signatures on anything, we’ll reach out. You’ll get emails from us at least two weeks before kickoff. Sound good?

Target: That’s great! I’m super excited, honestly. Do you know if we’ll get to visit any of the local colleges or science labs in the area?

Other: Yes. In fact, we’re planning a field trip to one of the university labs here in Missouri for some hands-on demos. We’ll send more details soon.

Target: Sounds amazing! Can’t wait to meet everyone.

Other: Likewise. Thanks again for your time today. We’ll be in touch soon!

Target: Thanks! Have a good one.

Other: You too, bye!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_211 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Uranium tetrachloride

Uranium tetrachloride is an inorganic compound, a salt of uranium and chlorine, with the formula UCl4. It is a hygroscopic olive-green solid. It was used in the electromagnetic isotope separation (EMIS) process of uranium enrichment.  It is one of the main starting materials for organouranium chemistry.

Synthesis and structure 

Uranium tetrachloride is synthesised generally by the reaction of uranium trioxide (UO3) and hexachloropropene.  Solvent UCl4 adducts can be formed by a simpler reaction of UI4 with hydrogen chloride in organic solvents.

According to X-ray crystallography the uranium centers are eight-coordinate, being surrounded by eight chlorine atoms, four at 264 pm and the other four at 287pm.

Chemical properties 
Dissolution in protic solvents is more complicated. When UCl4 is added to water the uranium aqua ion is formed.
UCl4 + H2O → [U(H2O)]4+ + 4Cl−
The aqua ion [U(H2O)]4+, (x is 8 or 9) is strongly hydrolyzed. 
[U(H2O)]4+  [U(H2O)(OH)]3+ + H+
The pKa for this reaction is ca. 1.6, so hydrolysis is absent only in solutions of acid strength 1 mol dm−3 or stronger (pH < 0). Further hydrolysis occurs at pH > 3. Weak chloro complexes of the aqua ion may be formed. Published estimates of the log K value for the formation of [UCl]3+(aq) vary from −0.5 to +3 because of difficulty in dealing with simultaneous hydrolysis.

With alcohols, partial solvolysis may occur.
UCl4 + ROH  UCl(OR) + HCl

Uranium tetrachloride dissolves in non-protic solvents such as tetrahydrofuran, acetonitrile, dimethyl formamide etc. that can act as Lewis bases. Solvates of formula UCl4L are formed which may be isolated. The solvent must be completely free of dissolved water, or hydrolysis will occur, with the solvent, S, picking up the released proton.
UCl4 + H2O + S  UCl3(OH) + SH+ +Cl−
The solvent molecules may be replaced by other ligand in a reaction such as 
UCl4 + 2Cl− → [UCl6]2−.
The solvent is not shown, just as when complexes of other metal ions are formed in aqueous solution.

Solutions of UCl4 are susceptible to oxidation by air, resulting in the production of complexes of the uranyl ion.

Applications 
Uranium tetrachloride is produced commercially by the reaction of carbon tetrachloride with pure uranium dioxide UO2 at 370 °C. It has been used as feed in the electromagnetic isotope separation (EMIS) process of uranium enrichment. Beginning in 1944, the Oak Ridge Y-12 Plant converted UO3 to UCl4 feed for the Ernest O. Lawrence's Alpha Calutrons. Its major benefit being the uranium tetrachloride used in the calutrons is not as corrosive as the uranium hexafluoride used in most other enrichment technologies This process was abandoned in the 1950s. In the 1980s, however, Iraq unexpectedly revived this option as part of its nuclear weapons program. In the enrichment process, uranium tetrachloride is ionized into a uranium plasma.

The uranium ions are then accelerated and passed through a strong magnetic field. After traveling along half of a circle, the beam is split into a region nearer the outside wall, which is depleted, and a region nearer the inside wall, which is enriched in 235U. The large amounts of energy required in maintaining the strong magnetic fields as well as the low recovery rates of the uranium feed material and slower more inconvenient facility operation make this an unlikely choice for large scale enrichment plants.

Work is being done in the use of molten uranium chloride–alkali chloride mixtures as reactor fuels in molten salt reactors. Uranium tetrachloride melts dissolved in a lithium chloride–potassium chloride eutectic have also been explored as a means to recover actinides from irradiated nuclear fuels through pyrochemical nuclear reprocessing.

Safety 
Like all water soluble uranium salts, uranium tetrachloride is nephrotoxic (poisonous to the kidney) and can cause severe renal damage and acute renal failure if ingested.

References 

Uranium(IV) compounds
Chlorides
Actinide halides
Nuclear materials
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-61 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi, thanks for joining me this morning, and I appreciate you making the time. Before we get into things, would you mind introducing yourself for my notes?

Target: Of course. My name is Harold Fernandez. I’m currently not in the labor force. I was working in production occupations for many years, specifically as a model maker and patternmaker for metal and plastic components.

Other: Thank you, Harold. And just to clarify, are you still working in that field or have you retired?

Target: I have retired. As I mentioned, I’m not in the labor force at the moment, so I’m not employed or seeking employment. I spent most of my career in that same role, though.

Other: Got it, thank you. Can you tell me a little about your educational background?

Target: Sure. I completed my bachelor’s degree, actually in industrial design. That provided a great foundation for my work as a model maker and patternmaker.

Other: That’s fantastic. And congratulations on your years of work and your retirement. In terms of personal background—for the record, are you a U.S. citizen?

Target: Yes, I am. I became a U.S. citizen through naturalization quite a while ago.

Other: Thank you. That’s helpful. Would you mind also providing your contact number, just in case we need to reach you for follow-up?

Target: Not at all. My phone number is (630) 712-0659.

Other: Perfect, thank you so much. Now, just a couple of follow-up questions for demographic purposes, if that’s alright. Can you tell me your current marital status?

Target: I’m widowed. My wife passed away eleven years ago.

Other: I’m very sorry to hear that. Thank you for sharing. Let’s talk a bit more about your career, if you don’t mind. What drew you to the production occupation field, and more specifically, to model making and patternmaking for metal and plastic?

Target: I always had a fascination for how things are made, even as a child. When I was in school, I gravitated toward classes that let me build and shape things by hand. After earning my bachelor’s degree, I found a position at a local fabrication shop and learned most of what I know on the job. I enjoyed the challenge of taking an idea from a drawing or CAD model and turning it into a real, tangible object, whether that was for automotive parts or industrial prototypes.

Other: That’s really interesting. Was there a particular project in your career that stands out to you?

Target: Definitely. Early in my career, I worked on an automotive prototype where I had to make both the metal framework and the interior plastic modeling. It required extensive coordination between departments and lots of precision work. Seeing that prototype roll off the assembly line was incredibly rewarding.

Other: Sounds like you made a real impact in your field. Since you’ve retired and are not now in the labor force, how are you spending your time?

Target: Well, these days I’ve picked up a few hobbies. I do woodworking at home—I have a small workshop in my garage. I also volunteer at a local community center, mostly helping with planning and setting up events. Retirement has given me time to reflect and to try things I hadn’t had time for before.

Other: That’s wonderful. Do you ever use the skills from your previous occupation in your hobbies or volunteer work?

Target: Absolutely. Making precise measurements and thinking in three dimensions is second nature to me after all those years as a model maker and patternmaker. And working with different materials—metal, plastic, or wood—it’s all about translating design into reality. I like to teach some of the kids at the community center about model building, too.

Other: That’s great to hear. Thank you for sharing, Harold. For our records, could you confirm your full contact information one more time, including your phone number?

Target: Certainly. My phone number is (630) 712-0659.

Other: Thank you. And you mentioned that you became a U.S. citizen through naturalization, is that correct?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. I completed the naturalization process after living in the United States for several years.

Other: Great, I’ve made a note of that. Going back to your educational history, you said you completed a bachelor’s degree in industrial design. Was that here in the U.S.?

Target: Yes, at Northern Illinois University. It was a four-year bachelor’s program, and I graduated in 1982.

Other: Wonderful. You’ve had a really interesting professional journey. What advice would you offer someone aspiring to enter production occupations—specifically model making and patternmaking for metal and plastic?

Target: I’d say start by getting a strong foundation in both design and basic engineering. A bachelor’s degree helps a lot for understanding the theory, but hands-on experience is just as important. Find opportunities, even as an apprentice, to work in a shop. Always ask questions and watch how more experienced workers solve problems. That’s where the real learning happens.

Other: That’s excellent advice. One more thing I’d like to ask. Are you involved with any professional organizations or alumni networks?

Target: I’m part of an alumni group from my bachelor’s program, and I used to belong to the Society of Manufacturing Engineers. I’m not as active now since I’m retired.

Other: Perfect. Thank you, Harold. This has been really helpful. Before we wrap up, is there anything you’d like to add or any way you’d like us to contact you if there’s a need for a follow-up?

Target: I think we’ve covered everything. But if you do need anything, just call me at (630) 712-0659, or you can email me. I appreciate the opportunity to share my story.

Other: Thank you, Harold. Really appreciate your time and openness. If we need anything further, we’ll be in touch.

Target: Thank you. Have a great day.

Other: You too. Take care.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-31 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, Doc. Thanks for squeezing me in today. My schedule’s been unpredictable lately—I just finished a twelve-hour shift and now here I am, hoping you can help me out before I get some actual sleep.

Doctor: Good afternoon. No trouble at all, thanks for making the time to come. I appreciate the dedication. You mentioned over the phone that you’ve been feeling run down lately. Can you tell me a bit more about what’s going on?

Patient: Yeah, exhaustion’s nothing new for me, but lately it’s been different, more like being hit by a truck instead of regular fatigue. Usually, I know the routine—late-night calls, back-to-back runs, adrenaline all night, and then I manage. But now, I feel winded walking up steps and my joints ache more than usual. Even my coworkers are starting to notice I’m dragging my feet.

Doctor: That sounds tough. When did you first start noticing these changes? Did anything in particular trigger the shift?

Patient: Let’s see… things started to feel off just after New Year’s. I remember because there was a massive snowstorm, so our team was on call for hours—typical winter in the city, right? Back then, I brushed it off as just being overworked, but it hasn’t let up. I get it—my job is intense. But this feels different. I haven’t changed my routine much besides catching a few early calls, so I don’t know what to pin it on.

Doctor: You mentioned your work is pretty intense. Can you remind me what you do?

Patient: Sure. I’m in EMS—we’re the folks you see racing red lights in the boroughs. I get calls all over the city, sometimes five, six runs a night. My shift’s usually at least twelve hours long but some nights bleed into fourteen. It’s fast-paced. I’m on my feet pretty much nonstop, lifting, hauling, responding fast to crises. It’s a lot, you know? My partner jokes the ambulance is my second home.

Doctor: That’s impressive. Those kinds of hours can really take a toll. Can you tell me about your sleep habits? Are you able to get at least six or seven hours a night?

Patient: Not lately. I’d be lucky to get four unbroken hours between work and family stuff. I try to nap during the day if my daughter’s in school, but sometimes I’m just trying to keep up—school drop-offs, after-school activities, all that. Plus, city noise isn’t forgiving. Sometimes I lie awake even when I have the time, and my mind just races through the last shift—sirens still ringing.

Doctor: Sounds like you carry a lot on your shoulders. Have you had any major stressors outside of work recently that could affect how you’re feeling? Family or personal life?

Patient: Well, my mom hasn’t been doing so hot lately, so I check on her after my shift when I can. She lives in Brooklyn—born and raised there. We’re a tight-knit family, always have Sunday dinners together, especially when my cousin visits from Harlem. I try not to bring work stress home, but sometimes it’s hard to switch gears, especially after handling some tough cases.

Doctor: I can imagine. Have you noticed any changes in your appetite or weight lately?

Patient: Actually, yes. My appetite comes and goes. Some shifts I barely eat, just grab whatever’s available—bodega sandwich, street pretzel, chips—then on my days off, I sometimes overeat, mostly comfort food. I haven’t really weighed myself in a few months, but my pants feel a bit snugger. My folks always say I should pay more attention—family history and all.

Doctor: Speaking of family history—any medical conditions in your family that I should be aware of? Diabetes, high blood pressure, heart issues?

Patient: All of the above, Doc. High blood pressure runs through my dad’s side. We joke about needing our rice and beans, but we also know we have to watch the salt. My aunt’s dealing with diabetes now. My uncle had a stroke last year, which made everyone get serious about checkups. I’m probably not as consistent as I should be, but I try to get in when I can between shifts.

Doctor: Thanks for letting me know. Any chest pain, trouble breathing, or heart palpitations recently?

Patient: No chest pain, but sometimes I get short of breath after climbing stairs for a call—never used to happen. I tell myself it’s just the winter weather or the extra gear, but maybe I should be paying more attention.

Doctor: What about your stress level in general? You’re in a high-pressure field. How do you wind down after work, or do you get the chance?

Patient: Usually, I watch a game or two—my Yankees haven’t been making it easy lately—but sports keep me sane. Sometimes, I just sit in Prospect Park to catch some quiet before picking up my daughter. When my schedule lines up, I catch an open mic night in Harlem for some jazz. I love that scene, gets me back to my roots, you know?

Doctor: Absolutely. Music can be restorative. Can I ask about caffeine or other supplements—are you using anything to stay awake on your shifts?

Patient: Guilty. Way too much coffee—sometimes I count four, five cups a night when we’re busy. My partner’s learned to always grab two when he stops. And, yeah, sometimes those energy drinks that I know I should avoid, but when it’s three in the morning and there’s a call, it feels impossible otherwise. No supplements, though.

Doctor: Okay, I hear you. Do you smoke or use alcohol or any other substances?

Patient: I don’t smoke, never picked it up—my grandma would have had a fit. I might have a beer when I’m off duty, usually when we all get together for the family cookout. Last time, my cousin was reminiscing about how our folks came up from down South and made the best BBQ on the block.

Doctor: That sounds wonderful. What about underlying medical conditions of your own—anything I haven’t mentioned already?

Patient: I’ve had mild asthma since I was a kid. Nothing severe, mostly just need the inhaler during allergy season. Speaking of—these spring allergies are already a pain, and the Bronx pollen is relentless. But otherwise, no chronic illnesses.

Doctor: Understood. When was your last full physical?

Patient: Too long, honestly. I think the last time was just before I re-certified for my license. That had to have been… maybe two years ago? I keep pushing it off, since every time I plan to go, the city throws a curveball my way.

Doctor: Let’s make sure we update everything today. By the way, just so I have my records straight, you grew up here in the city?

Patient: Yup, Brooklyn born. Aside from a stint in upstate during college, it’s always been NYC. I’ve got a thing for the city buzz—subways, bodegas, summer block parties. I know people complain, but I can’t see myself living anywhere you can’t get Jamaican beef patties at 2am. Plus, my kid’s at PS 321 now, so we’re here for the long haul.

Doctor: Did you say your daughter goes to PS 321? That’s a great school. How old is she?

Patient: She turned 12 last fall, right before Halloween. Seemed just yesterday we were having her birthday, and now she’s already taller than her grandma.

Doctor: Kids grow up fast. Just curious—when’s your birthday?

Patient: Well, mine always falls right at the end of those summer block parties—late August, just as school’s about to start and the city starts to cool down. I remember when I turned 18, MTV was still playing music videos and everyone was talking about that new Lord of the Rings movie coming up.

Doctor: That’s great—late summer birthdays are nice for outdoor parties. And you mentioned you turned 18 when Lord of the Rings was about to be released—that would put you in your mid-40s now, right?

Patient: Yeah, just hit 44 last summer. My daughter made me a homemade Red Velvet cake, and my mom told the whole family I’m getting old. I keep telling her forty is the new thirty, but she isn’t buying it.

Doctor: You’ve earned every year—especially with your workload. Now, any travel outside of the city recently? Just checking for possible exposures.

Patient: Haven’t really left the five boroughs much. Only time I leave is if the job sends me to one of the Long Island hospitals for training, but otherwise, I’m here. The furthest I went was to see my cousin’s graduation in Albany last spring.

Doctor: Noted. Since you’re working in emergency response, have you had any recent exposures, like airborne illnesses or anything that stands out?

Patient: Oh, for sure—comes with the territory. Last week, we transported someone with a nasty cough. I masked up, of course. We get regular training on PPE, so I do my best to stay cautious. No direct needle sticks or anything like that, and I’m up to date on my shots.

Doctor: That’s good. By the way, I asked because you mentioned working those long, unpredictable shifts—does your employer offer any programs for stress management or wellness? Some emergency departments in the city are doing more for their first responders now.

Patient: They’re trying. Last year, they brought in a counselor for debriefs after tough calls, especially for cases involving kids. We can sign up for a yoga class, but I’ll be honest, it’s hard to justify a yoga mat when the phone keeps buzzing about another emergency. My partner and I vent to each other in the rig between calls. It helps, but I know it’s not enough.

Doctor: That’s important. Some of what you’re describing—fatigue, appetite changes, stress—may be your way of coping with all that trauma and adrenaline. How are you feeling emotionally? Any low moods, anxiety, or trouble concentrating?

Patient: Some days, yeah. I’d be lying if I said no. After handling a really tough call—like the time we had to do CPR on a kid—it hangs over me for days. My wife says I get quiet, and I notice myself zoning out more than usual. But I try to keep it together for my daughter, show her it’s possible to handle difficult things. My grandmother used to say, “From struggle comes strength.” I hold on to that.

Doctor: What do you do for support? Do you have people you can talk to if things feel overwhelming?

Patient: Family first. My mom and aunt are always there—our Sunday dinners are sacred. It’s where I catch up with relatives and hear all the family gossip. We’re close-knit—roots go back to the Harlem Renaissance. Some stories get passed down again and again. My church community is also supportive—every year we have a Juneteenth celebration and everyone brings a dish. That sense of belonging helps a lot.

Doctor: That sounds really meaningful. I encourage you to keep reaching out when you need it. Given your symptoms and the strain your body is under, I think it’s a good idea to run a few labs—just to rule out anything like anemia, thyroid issues, or vitamin deficiencies. Sound good?

Patient: Sounds good to me. If I could get those results before my next double shift, that would be perfect. I like knowing what’s going on so I’m not guessing when I’m supposed to help others out there.

Doctor: I’ll make a note to rush the labs. Also, how’s your blood pressure been running?

Patient: Last time I checked on the ambulance, it was a bit high. I figured it was the fifth cup of coffee and my partner blaring the siren, but maybe it’s time to get serious. My dad’s was through the roof at my age, so I’d better not ignore it.

Doctor: Good call. One thing we can do is check it right now and make a plan. In the meantime, you might want to consider switching your third or fourth coffee with water—you know how it goes, leading by example. Would you be open to that?

Patient: I can try. They’ll probably laugh at me, but I’ll give it a shot. Can’t have my daughter’s friends calling me old when I show up at her next school event, right?

Doctor: You’re doing your best—that’s what matters. Is there anything else on your mind that you wanted to discuss today?

Patient: I think that covers it, Doc. Just want to get a handle on this fatigue so I can keep up—with work, family, and maybe get back on my city rec basketball team for old times’ sake.

Doctor: Let’s start with the labs and work on a plan together. I appreciate how hard you work for the community—and for your family. I’ll follow up with your results as soon as I have them. In the meantime, try to rest when you can. And happy early birthday for August if I don’t see you before then.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. Appreciate you looking out for me. I’m due a good summer this year, and hopefully, fewer ambulance calls when my birthday rolls around.

Doctor: Absolutely. Take care and don’t hesitate to reach out if anything changes or you need anything before then.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-64 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hey, doc. Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.

Doctor: Of course, what brings you in today?

Patient: Well, these past few weeks, I’ve had this gnawing pain in my lower back. At first, I thought it was just from bending weird at home, but it’s just not letting up. Figured it’s time to get it checked out before it gets worse.

Doctor: That’s definitely wise. How would you describe the pain? Does it feel sharp, dull, constant, or does it come and go?

Patient: It started as kind of an ache, but sometimes if I twist a certain way or get up too fast, it shoots down my hip. I’ll be honest, I used to be able to power through stuff like this. Lately, I guess I’m noticing aches more often than I used to.

Doctor: I see. Have you had any recent injuries, heavy lifting, or strenuous activity that might have triggered it?

Patient: Nah, nothing recent. I mean, a few months back, I’d spend a lot of time handling heavy loads, but that’s not the case right now. These days, I spend more time than I’d like catching up on repairs at home or watching TV. My day-to-day is pretty low-key since last fall.

Doctor: I understand. We’ll talk more about your routine in a moment. Are you experiencing any other symptoms? Numbness or tingling in your legs? Difficulty urinating?

Patient: Well, sometimes my left leg feels a little pins-and-needles after I sit for too long, like when I’m glued to the couch for a movie marathon. But no trouble going to the bathroom or anything like that.

Doctor: All right. Have you tried anything for the pain so far? Over-the-counter meds, heat packs, or stretching?

Patient: I tried using one of those microwave heat pads, which helps a little. Ibuprofen dulls it if I take a couple. Haven’t really been as active with stretches since my work routine changed up and I’m home more.

Doctor: When you say your work routine changed, do you mind telling me a bit more? Sometimes changes in daily activity or posture can have a real impact on back pain.

Patient: Sure. See, for a long time I’d be up super early, working at the yards, around machinery. Climbing up and down, sometimes wearing a harness for hours. But things slowed down after the site paused most of the heavy jobs. Since then, I’ve had a lot more downtime than usual—nothing consistent coming in, and there aren’t exactly cranes rolling down every street looking for a hand. So, my days are mostly spent at home, helping family out, running errands, that sort of thing.

Doctor: So your workload decreased, and you’ve become less physically active?

Patient: Yeah, way less compared to what I was used to. I kinda miss hauling stuff up, you know? The big levers, the view from way up high—could see all the way to the ocean on a clear day. Now, it’s more about keeping myself busy with odd tasks around the house.

Doctor: I see. Sometimes, being less physically active can actually make old aches flare up more, especially if your muscles and spine aren’t being used the same way. When you were working those big machines, did you ever have preventative health check-ups or safety assessments?

Patient: Yeah, at my last gig, they’d do the annual checks, make sure you weren’t getting wobbly at the controls. We had to stay sharp and alert up there. They’d even remind us about eye tests and hydration because things get pretty intense in those cabs. But now that I’m mostly home, I guess my routine’s gotten a bit too comfortable.

Doctor: Understood. You mentioned missing the view of the ocean—were these sites around here, or did you travel for work?

Patient: Mostly local, but sometimes I’d be called out to big sites, especially when they needed someone familiar with the ins and outs of swinging heavy loads. My uncles did similar work, and a lot of us are sort of known for taking on jobs that make use of a steady hand—and not minding a little height.

Doctor: It sounds like there’s a family tradition there. Did you get into this line of work because of family connections?

Patient: Absolutely—my dad did it, my uncles too. It’s a bit of a rite of passage for guys in my family. Stories get passed down, like how my great-uncle helped put together the stadium before I was born. There’s a lot of pride in it.

Doctor: That must be meaningful. Does your family live nearby?

Patient: Oh, yeah. Most of us are within driving distance. We get together for big family luaus, especially around the new year or when someone marks a milestone. Can’t have a proper gathering without a big spread—taro, poke, music, the works.

Doctor: I’m hearing a lot about your family and culture in your life. Does it play a role in how you manage stress or pain?

Patient: For sure. When my back acts up, my aunties always have some home remedies—rubs and massages, herbal teas. My grandma’s the go-to for making sure I’m not slacking off on taking care of myself. There’s a lot of wisdom in their ways.

Doctor: That’s fantastic. Have you ever tried integrating those remedies with anything we’ve discussed here in the clinic?

Patient: I’ve tried mixing both—some of the teas and rubs in addition to what you’ve suggested before, like stretching. If it gets really bad, I’ll see if one of my cousins can help with a massage; they learned from their dad, who picked it up back home. But sometimes, you just need a bit more help than a family fix.

Doctor: That’s certainly understandable. If it’s all right with you, I’d like to run a physical exam and perhaps schedule some imaging just to rule out anything more serious. We can also figure out a plan that integrates movement back into your day.

Patient: Sounds good. I’d like to avoid pills as much as possible, if we can. My dad worries about that, given what he’s seen from buddies at the docks who got hooked on painkillers.

Doctor: Absolutely, and we can work on a plan that minimizes medication use as much as possible. You mentioned spending a lot of time at home and watching movies. Are you finding the new routine difficult, being less active than you’re used to?

Patient: To be honest, it’s tough. I was always proud to be the guy who could fix something big or rig a tricky lift. These days, sometimes I struggle to get out of bed and wonder if another opportunity will pop up. I’m sending applications wherever I can, keeping an ear out with folks I know, but there’s not much movement right now, pun intended.

Doctor: That can definitely weigh on you, especially when so much of your identity is tied to your work. Are you feeling down or anxious about the future?

Patient: I have my days. I try to keep busy—cook big meals, help out with the kids in my extended family, go for a walk when the weather lets me. It helps, you know? I remind myself that staying healthy is something my grandpa used to push—he’d say, “Got to be strong for the crew.”

Doctor: Is anyone in your family helping out, either financially or emotionally?

Patient: My folks are wonderful—they knock on my door with food or just to chat. Everyone pitches in when someone’s going through a rough patch. We look out for each other, that’s how it’s always been. When my cousin was in between jobs last year, everyone made sure his fridge was never empty.

Doctor: That kind of support is invaluable. Going back to your back pain for a moment—do you find that certain activities or traditions in your family gatherings make it worse or better?

Patient: Dancing makes it both better and worse, if that makes sense. It loosens me up, but also sometimes the next day I pay for getting a little too enthusiastic. At least my cousin plays the ukulele, so I can sit and strum if I’m not feeling up to busting a move.

Doctor: Those sound like important parts of staying connected. Would you be open to working with a physical therapist? Someone who can help address pain, but also recommend activities tailored to getting you back into shape for the kind of work you’d like to get back to?

Patient: Yeah, I’d really appreciate that. I’m hoping this isn’t something that’s going to keep me away from climbing into a cab if another opening comes up. My license is still good, and all the certifications are up to date, just need the opportunity.

Doctor: That’s good to hear—keeping your certifications current is important. About how long have you been off your usual job now?

Patient: Since October, so coming up on seven months. Time flies, but sometimes it drags. I worked steady since I was around twenty, so this downtime’s a first for me.

Doctor: Have you looked into any support resources for professionals in your field, or from local groups in your community?

Patient: Yeah, I’ve stopped by the union hall a few times. They post openings and sometimes have talks about staying in shape for when work comes back. There’s also a community center that holds cultural nights, and once a month, they do check-ins for folks like me waiting for more steady work.

Doctor: That’s excellent. They might even have leads on temporary opportunities or training workshops in the meantime. Any headaches or dizziness to go along with your back issues?

Patient: No headaches, thankfully. Just the back and occasional twinge in my leg if I sit funny. I keep telling myself it could be worse—one of my friends slipped on the deck out at the port, and he’s still getting around with a cane.

Doctor: Have you had any falls yourself, or felt unsteady on your feet?

Patient: Not really. I was always the one everyone counted on to keep their balance, tie the knots, man the controls. My knees aren’t what they used to be, but I’m careful.

Doctor: Good. I’ll want to check your reflexes and strength in your legs today. Any family history of joint issues or arthritis?

Patient: My dad’s got a bit of arthritis, and my grandma used to say her “old bones” could predict the rain before the news did. Otherwise, folks in my family generally stay strong, as long as they keep moving.

Doctor: And have you had any recent medical checkups—cholesterol, blood pressure, things like that?

Patient: Last full check-up was about a year ago. Everything was pretty much steady, doc said to watch my sugar but nothing too wild. My blood pressure was good, and I’ve been trying to cut down on the sweet drinks.

Doctor: That’s excellent. With more downtime, sometimes eating habits can shift. Have you made any changes to your diet since your routine changed?

Patient: Yeah, a bit. I cook more now. Lots of fish, taro, and greens—stuff we grow or get at the market. I skip fried stuff when I can, except for special occasions. My aunties would scold me otherwise.

Doctor: That’s great. Any trouble sleeping lately, especially with your pain?

Patient: Sleep comes and goes. Some nights I’m restless, especially when I start overthinking about when my next job’s coming. Other times, the pain wakes me up, but if I prop myself with pillows, I manage.

Doctor: We should make sure pain isn’t interfering too much with your rest. I’ll make some recommendations for sleep position and stretches, and we can check in on your mood, too, if you ever feel you’re having a tough time.

Patient: I appreciate that. I try to keep a positive attitude—listen to some traditional music, talk to my nephews about the old stories, remind myself we’ve been through rough patches before. It’s not easy, but, you know, we’re resilient people.

Doctor: Absolutely, it sounds like you have a strong sense of identity and resiliency. Do your cultural practices help you manage your health in other ways too?

Patient: Oh, definitely. We have certain foods for recovery, and there are prayers and chants we do. Even when I’m feeling low, watching my little cousins learn the dances keeps me going. There’s comfort in heritage.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Before we start your physical exam, is there anything else you want to bring up? Any questions or concerns about your health or the next steps?

Patient: Not really, just hoping we can get my back sorted out so I’m ready for work if the call comes. My old boss did say they might need someone who knows how to handle the big lifts again, so I want to be at my best when that happens.

Doctor: Then let’s get you moving in the right direction. I’ll step out and when I return, we’ll start the exam and talk about a plan to get your strength back up.

Patient: Thank you, doc. I appreciate all your help.

Doctor: You’re most welcome. I’ll be right back.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_229 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Follower plate pump

A follower plate pump is a device to pump highly viscous material directly from barrels. So it sometimes is called a barrel follower plate pump.
It is applied in food manufacturing, resin dispensing, gluing and so on.

The principle 
If an ordinary intake socket is lowered into highly viscous material, the material will flow so slowly, that after short time, the pump will soak up air, because the socket is not fully covered by the material anymore. To avoid that, a plate, closing tight to the wall of the barrel by a soft sealing lip, is put on top of the material in the barrel. This plate is lowered slowly so that the material rises through a hole in the center of the plate into the intake socket. The pumped amount and the amount lifted through the plate have to be precisely the same. This must be ensured by appropriate control of the follower plate.

In such a device a scooping piston pump or an eccentric screw pump can be used for pumping the stiff paste.

Fundamental problems 
To get rid of enclosed air when changing barrels, quite some material has to be pressed out of the barrel, causing a significant amount of waste.

The follower plate can be lowered too fast in such a way, that material is squeezed out at the side instead of being raised in the center.

Hardened material on the edge of the sealing lip of the follower plate can be carried into the material, causing waste of produced parts or process breakdown.

Pumps
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_138 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# 4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase

4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD), also known as α-ketoisocaproate dioxygenase (KIC dioxygenase), is an Fe(II)-containing non-heme oxygenase that catalyzes the second reaction in the catabolism of tyrosine - the conversion of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate into homogentisate. HPPD also catalyzes the conversion of phenylpyruvate to 2-hydroxyphenylacetate and the conversion of α-ketoisocaproate to β-hydroxy β-methylbutyrate. HPPD is an enzyme that is found in nearly all aerobic forms of life.

Enzyme mechanism
HPPD is categorized within a class of oxygenase enzymes that usually utilize α-ketoglutarate and diatomic oxygen to oxygenate or oxidize a target molecule. However, HPPD differs from most molecules in this class due to the fact that it does not use α-ketoglutarate, and it only utilizes two substrates while adding both atoms of diatomic oxygen into the product, homogentisate. The HPPD reaction occurs through a NIH shift and involves the oxidative decarboxylation of an α-oxo acid as well as aromatic ring hydroxylation. The NIH-shift, which has been demonstrated through isotope-labeling studies, involves migration of an alkyl group to form a more stable carbocation. The shift, accounts for the observation that C3 is bonded to C4 in 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate but to C5 in homogentisate. The predicted mechanism of HPPD can be seen in the following figure:

Structure 
HPPD is an enzyme that usually bonds to form tetramers in bacteria and dimers in eukaryotes and has a subunit mass of 40-50 kDa. Dividing the enzyme into the N-terminus and C-terminus one will notice that the N-terminus varies in composition while the C-terminus remains relatively constant (the C-terminus in plants does differ slightly from the C-terminus in other beings). In 1999 the first X-ray crystallography structure of HPPD was created and since then it has been discovered that the active site of HPPD is composed entirely of residues near the C-terminus of the enzyme. The active site of HPPD has not been completely mapped, but it is known that the site consists of an iron ion surrounded by amino acids extending inward from beta sheets (with the exception of the C-terminal helix). While even less is known about the function of the N-terminus of the enzyme, scientists have discovered that a single amino acid change in the N-terminal region can cause the disease known as hawkinsinuria.

Function 
In nearly all aerobic beings, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase is responsible for converting 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate into homogentisate. This conversion is one of many steps in breaking L-tyrosine into acetoacetate and fumarate. While the overall products of this cycle are used to create energy, plants and higher order eukaryotes utilize HPPD for a much more important reason. In eukaryotes, HPPD is used to regulate blood tyrosine levels, and plants utilize this enzyme to help produce the cofactors plastoquinone and tocopherol which are essential for the plant to survive.

Disease relevance 
HPPD can be linked to one of the oldest known inherited metabolic disorders known as alkaptonuria, which is caused by high levels of homogentisate in the blood stream. HPPD is also directly linked to Type III tyrosinemia When the active HPPD enzyme concentration is low in the human body, it results in high levels of tyrosine concentration in the blood, which can cause mild mental retardation at birth, and degradation in vision as a patient grows older.

In Type I tyrosinemia, a different enzyme, fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase is mutated and doesn't work, leading to very harmful products building up in the body. Fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase acts on tyrosine after HPPD does, so scientists working on making herbicides in the class of HPPD inhibitors hypothesized that inhibiting HPPD and controlling tyrosine in the diet could treat this disease.  A series of small clinical trials were attempted with one of their compounds, nitisinone were conducted and were successful, leading to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_228 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Relaxation (NMR)

In MRI and NMR spectroscopy, an observable nuclear spin polarization (magnetization) is created by a homogeneous magnetic field. This field makes the magnetic dipole moments of the sample precess at the resonance (Larmor) frequency of the nuclei. At thermal equilibrium, nuclear spins precess randomly about the direction of the applied field. They become abruptly phase coherent when they are hit by radiofrequency (RF) pulses at the resonant frequency, created orthogonal to the field. The RF pulses cause the population of spin-states to be perturbed from their thermal equilibrium value. The generated transverse magnetization can then induce a signal in an RF coil that can be detected and amplified by an RF receiver.   The return of the longitudinal component of the magnetization to its equilibrium value is termed spin-lattice relaxation while the loss of phase-coherence of the spins is termed spin-spin relaxation, which is manifest as an observed free induction decay (FID).

For spin=½ nuclei (such as 1H), the polarization due to spins oriented with the field N− relative to the spins oriented against the field N+ is given by the Boltzmann distribution:
 
where ΔE is the energy level difference between the two populations of spins, k is the Boltzmann constant, and T is the sample temperature. At room temperature, the number of spins in the lower energy level, N−, slightly outnumbers the number in the upper level, N+. The energy gap between the spin-up and spin-down states in NMR is minute by atomic emission standards at magnetic fields conventionally used in MRI and NMR spectroscopy. Energy emission in NMR must be induced through a direct interaction of a nucleus with its external environment rather than by spontaneous emission. This interaction may be through the electrical or magnetic fields generated by other nuclei, electrons, or molecules. Spontaneous emission of energy is a radiative process involving the release of a photon and typified by phenomena such as fluorescence and phosphorescence. As stated by Abragam, the probability per unit time of the nuclear spin-1/2 transition from the + into the
- state through spontaneous emission of a photon is a negligible phenomenon. 
Rather, the return to equilibrium is a much slower thermal process induced by the fluctuating local magnetic fields due to molecular or electron (free radical) rotational motions that return the excess energy in the form of heat to the surroundings.

T1 and T2
The decay of RF-induced NMR spin polarization is characterized in terms of two separate processes, each with their own time constants. One process, called T1, is responsible for the loss of resonance intensity following pulse excitation. The other process, called T2, characterizes the width or broadness of resonances. Stated more formally, T1 is the time constant for the physical processes responsible for the relaxation of the  components of the nuclear spin magnetization vector M parallel to the external magnetic field, B0 (which is conventionally designated as the z-axis). T2 relaxation affects the coherent components of M perpendicular to B0. In conventional NMR spectroscopy, T1 limits the pulse repetition rate and affects the overall time an NMR spectrum can be acquired. Values of T1 range from milliseconds to several seconds, depending on the size of the molecule, the viscosity of the solution, the temperature of the sample, and the possible presence of paramagnetic species (e.g., O2 or metal ions).

T1

The longitudinal (or spin-lattice) relaxation time T1 is the decay constant for the recovery of the z component of the nuclear spin magnetization, Mz, towards its thermal equilibrium value, . In general,

In specific cases:
If M has been tilted into the xy plane, then  and the recovery is simply

i.e. the magnetization recovers to 63% of its equilibrium value after one time constant T1.

In the inversion recovery experiment, commonly used to measure T1 values, the initial magnetization is...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_44 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dopamine agonist

A dopamine agonist (DA) is a compound that activates dopamine receptors. There are two families of dopamine receptors, D2-like and D1-like, and they are all G protein-coupled receptors. D1- and D5-receptors belong to the D1-like family and the D2-like family includes D2, D3 and D4 receptors. Dopamine agonists are primarily used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, and to a lesser extent, in hyperprolactinemia and restless legs syndrome. They are also used off-label in the treatment of clinical depression. The use of dopamine agonists is associated with impulse control disorders and dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome (DAWS).

Medical uses

Parkinson's disease

Dopamine agonists are mainly used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.  The cause of Parkinson's is not fully known but genetic factors, for example specific genetic mutations, and environmental triggers have been linked to the disease. In Parkinson's disease dopaminergic neurons that produce the neurotransmitter dopamine in the brain slowly break down and can eventually die. With decreasing levels of dopamine the brain can't function properly and causes abnormal brain activity, which ultimately leads to the symptoms of Parkinson's disease.

There are two fundamental ways of treating Parkinson's disease, either by replacing dopamine or mimicking its effect.

Dopamine agonists act directly on the dopamine receptors and mimic dopamine's effect. Dopamine agonists have two subclasses: ergoline and non-ergoline agonists. Both subclasses target dopamine D2-type receptors. Types of ergoline agonists are cabergoline and bromocriptine and examples of non-ergoline agonists are pramipexole, ropinirole and rotigotine. Ergoline agonists are much less used nowadays because of the risk of cartilage formation in heart valves.

Treatment of depression in Parkinson's patients

Depressive symptoms and disorders are common in patients with Parkinson's disease and can affect their quality of life. Increased anxiety can accentuate the symptoms of Parkinson's and is therefore essential to treat. Instead of conventional antidepressant medication in treating depression, treatment with dopamine agonists has been suggested. It is mainly thought that dopamine agonists help with treating depressive symptoms and disorders by alleviating motor complications, which is one of the main symptoms of Parkinson's disease.  Although preliminary evidence of clinical trials has shown interesting results, further research is crucial to establish the anti-depressive effects of dopamine agonists in treating depressive symptoms and disorders in those with Parkinson's.

Hyperprolactinemia
Dopamine is a prolactin-inhibiting factor (PIFs) since it lowers the prolactin-releasing factors (PRFs) synthesis and secretion through D2-like receptors. That is why dopamine agonists are the first-line treatment in hyperprolactinemia. Ergoline-derived agents, bromocriptine and cabergoline are mostly used in treatment. Research shows that these agents reduce the size of prolactinomas by suppressing the hypersecretion of prolactin resulting in normal gonadal function.

Restless leg syndrome

Numerous clinical trials have been performed to assess the use of dopamine agonists for the treatment of restless leg syndrome (RLS). RLS is identified by the strong urge to move and is a dopamine-dependent disorder. RLS symptoms decrease with the use of drugs that stimulate dopamine receptors and increase dopamine levels, such as dopamine agonists.

Adverse effects

Side effects

Dopamine agonists are mainly used to treat Parkinson’s disease but are also used to treat hyperprolactinemia and restless legs syndrome. The side effects are mainly recorded in treatment for Parkinson’s disease where dopamine agonists are commonly used, especially as first-line treatment with levodopa.
 
Dopamine agonists are divided into two subgroups or drug classes, first-generation and newer agents. Ergoline derived agonists are the first generation and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_201 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Semantic integration

Semantic integration is the process of interrelating information from diverse sources, for example calendars and to do lists, email archives, presence information (physical, psychological, and social), documents of all sorts, contacts (including social graphs), search results, and advertising and marketing relevance derived from them. In this regard, semantics focuses on the organization of and action upon information by acting as an intermediary between heterogeneous data sources, which may conflict not only by structure but also context or value.

Applications and methods

In enterprise application integration (EAI), semantic integration can facilitate or even automate the communication between computer systems using metadata publishing. Metadata publishing potentially offers the ability to automatically link ontologies. One approach to (semi-)automated ontology mapping requires the definition of a semantic distance or its inverse, semantic similarity and appropriate rules. Other approaches include so-called lexical methods, as well as methodologies that rely on exploiting the structures of the ontologies.  For explicitly stating similarity/equality, there exist special properties or relationships in most ontology languages. OWL, for example has "owl:equivalentClass", "owl:equivalentProperty" and "owl:sameAs".

Eventually system designs may see the advent of composable architectures where published semantic-based interfaces are joined together to enable new and meaningful capabilities. These could predominately be described by means of design-time declarative specifications, that could ultimately be rendered and executed at run-time.

Semantic integration can also be used to facilitate design-time activities of interface design and mapping. In this model, semantics are only explicitly applied to design and the run-time systems work at the syntax level. This  "early semantic binding" approach can improve overall system performance while retaining the benefits of semantic driven design.

Semantic integration situations

From the industry use case, it has been observed that the semantic mappings were performed only within the scope of the ontology class or the datatype property. These identified semantic integrations are (1) integration of ontology class instances into another ontology class without any constraint, (2) integration of selected instances in one ontology class into another ontology class by the range constraint of the property value and (3) integration of ontology class instances into another ontology class with the value transformation of the instance property. Each of them requires a particular mapping relationship, which is respectively: (1) equivalent or subsumption mapping relationship, (2) conditional mapping relationship that constraints the value of property (data range) and (3) transformation mapping relationship that transforms the value of property (unit transformation). Each identified mapping relationship can be defined as either (1) direct mapping type, (2) data range mapping type or (3) unit transformation mapping type.

KG vs. RDB approaches

In the case of integrating supplemental data source,
 KG(Knowledge graph) formally represents the meaning involved in information by describing concepts, relationships between things, and categories of things. These embedded semantics with the data offer significant advantages such as reasoning over data and dealing with heterogeneous data sources. The rules can be applied on KG more efficiently using graph query. For example, the graph query does the data inference through the connected relations, instead of repeated full search of the tables in relational database. KG facilitates the integration of new heterogeneous data by just adding new relationships between existing information and new entities. This facilitation is emphasized for the integration with existing popular linked open data source such as Wikidata.org.
 SQL query is tightly coupled and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_271 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Defocus aberration

In optics, defocus is the aberration in which an image is simply out of focus. This aberration is familiar to anyone who has used a camera, videocamera, microscope, telescope, or binoculars.  Optically, defocus refers to a translation of the focus along the optical axis away from the detection surface.  In general, defocus reduces the sharpness and contrast of the image.  What should be sharp, high-contrast edges in a scene become gradual transitions.  Fine detail in the scene is blurred or even becomes invisible.  Nearly all image-forming optical devices incorporate some form of focus adjustment to minimize defocus and maximize image quality.

In optics and photography 
The degree of image blurring for a given amount of focus shift depends inversely on the lens f-number.  Low f-numbers, such as  to 2.8, are very sensitive to defocus and have very shallow depths of focus. High f-numbers, in the 16 to 32 range, are highly tolerant of defocus, and consequently have large depths of focus.  The limiting case in f-number is the pinhole camera, operating at perhaps 100 to 1000, in which case all objects are in focus almost regardless of their distance from the pinhole aperture.  The penalty for achieving this extreme depth of focus is very dim illumination at the imaging film or sensor, limited resolution due to diffraction, and very long exposure time, which introduces the potential for image degradation due to motion blur.

The amount of allowable defocus is related to the resolution of the imaging medium. A lower-resolution imaging chip or film is more tolerant of defocus and other aberrations. To take full advantage of a higher resolution medium, defocus and other aberrations must be minimized.

Defocus is modeled in Zernike polynomial format as , where  is the defocus coefficient in wavelengths of light.  This corresponds to the parabola-shaped optical path difference between two spherical wavefronts that are tangent at their vertices and have different radii of curvature.

For some applications, such as phase contrast electron microscopy, defocused images can contain useful information. Multiple images recorded with various values of defocus can be used to examine how the intensity of the electron wave varies in three-dimensional space, and from this information the phase of the wave can be inferred. This is the basis of non-interferometric phase retrieval. Examples of phase retrieval algorithms that use defocused images include the Gerchberg–Saxton algorithm and various methods based on the transport-of-intensity equation.

In vision 
In casual conversation, the term blur can be used to describe any reduction in vision. However, in a clinical setting blurry vision means the subjective experience or perception of optical defocus within the eye, called refractive error. Blur may appear differently depending on the amount and type of refractive error. The following are some examples of blurred images that may result from refractive errors:The extent of blurry vision can be assessed by measuring visual acuity with an eye chart. Blurry vision is often corrected by focusing light on the retina with corrective lenses.  These corrections sometimes have unwanted effects including magnification or reduction, distortion, color fringes, and altered depth perception. During an eye exam, the patient's acuity is measured without correction, with their current correction, and after refraction.  This allows the optometrist or ophthalmologist ("eye doctor") to determine the extent refractive errors play in limiting the quality of the patient's vision.  A Snellen acuity of 6/6 or 20/20, or as decimal value 1.0, is considered to be sharp vision for an average human (young adults may have nearly twice that value).  Best-corrected acuity lower than that is an indication that there is another limitation to vision beyond the correction of refractive error.

The blur disk 

Optical defocus can result from incorrect corrective lenses or insufficient ...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_66 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Triangle strip

In computer graphics, a triangle strip is a subset of triangles in a triangle mesh with shared vertices, and is a more memory-efficient method of storing information about the mesh. They are more efficient than un-indexed lists of triangles, but usually equally fast or slower than indexed triangle lists. The primary reason to use triangle strips is to reduce the amount of data needed to create a series of triangles. The number of vertices stored in memory is reduced from  to , where  is the number of triangles to be drawn.  This allows for less use of disk space, as well as making them faster to load into RAM.

For example, the four triangles in the diagram, without using triangle strips, would have to be stored and interpreted as four separate triangles: ABC, CBD, CDE, and EDF. However, using a triangle strip, they can be stored simply as a sequence of vertices ABCDEF. This sequence  would be decoded as a set of triangles with vertices at ABC, BCD, CDE and DEF - although the exact order that the vertices are read will not be in left-to-right order as this would result in adjacent triangles facing alternating directions.

OpenGL implementation

OpenGL has built-in support for triangle strips. Fixed function OpenGL (deprecated in OpenGL 3.0) has support for triangle strips using immediate mode and the , , and  functions. Newer versions support triangle strips using  and .

To draw a triangle strip using immediate mode OpenGL,  must be passed the argument , which notifies OpenGL a triangle strip is about to be drawn. The  family of functions specify the coordinates for each vertex in the triangle strip. For more information, consult The OpenGL Redbook.

To draw the triangle strip in the diagram using immediate mode OpenGL, the code is as follows:

 //Vertices below are in Clockwise orientation
 //Default setting for glFrontFace is Counter-clockwise
 glFrontFace(GL_CW);

 glBegin(GL_TRIANGLE_STRIP);	
 glVertex3f( 0.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f ); //vertex 1
 glVertex3f( 0.0f, 0.5f, 0.0f ); //vertex 2
 glVertex3f( 0.5f, 0.0f, 0.0f ); //vertex 3
 glVertex3f( 1.0f, 0.5f, 0.0f ); //vertex 4
 glEnd();

Note that only one additional vertex is needed to draw the second triangle.
In OpenGL, the order in which the vertices are specified is important so that surface normals are consistent.

Quoting directly from the OpenGL Programming Guide:

GL_TRIANGLE_STRIPDraws a series of triangles (three-sided polygons) using vertices v0, v1, v2, then v2, v1, v3 (note the order), then v2, v3, v4, and so on. The ordering is to ensure that the triangles are all drawn with the same orientation so that the strip can correctly form part of a surface.

It's even clearer within the manual pages:

Draws a connected group of triangles.  One triangle is defined for each vertex presented after the first two vertices. For odd , vertices , , and  define triangle . For even , vertices , , and  define triangle .  triangles are drawn.

Note that  starts at 1. The above code sample and diagram demonstrate triangles drawn in a clockwise orientation.  For those to be considered front-facing, a preceding call to  is necessary, which otherwise has an initial value of  (meaning that triangles drawn counter-clockwise are front-facing by default).  This is significant if  and  are already active ( by default), because back-facing triangles will be culled, so will not be drawn and will not appear on-screen at all.

Properties and construction
It follows from definition that a subsequence of vertices of a triangle strip also represents a triangle strip. However, if this substrip starts at an even (with 1-based counting) vertex, then the resulting triangles will change their orientation. For example a substrip BCDEF would represent triangles: BCD,CED,DEF.

Similarly, reversal of strips’ vertices will result in the same set of triangles if the strip has an even number of vertices. (e.g. strip FEDCBA will represent the same triangles FED,ECD,DCB,CAB as the original strip). However, if a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-2 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for getting me in today.

Doctor: Good morning. No problem at all—glad you could make it. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I was hoping you could help with a couple things. Mostly needing a regular check-up, since it's about time again. Also, I’ve been having some aches in my knees, so I wanted to get your thoughts.

Doctor: Sure, we’ll cover everything. Have you had any new or unusual symptoms besides the knee pain?

Patient: Not really, nothing out of the ordinary. Just the same old stuff. My wife keeps telling me I should get these things checked, so here I am.

Doctor: That’s what they’re there for—spouses always keeping us in line. How long have the knee aches been happening?

Patient: They’ve been on and off for a few months. It especially acts up after I do yard work or if I’m on my feet all day at the shop.

Doctor: I see. Have you ever had any injuries to your knees, or is this something new?

Patient: Nothing bad, no injuries. Just maybe getting older, I guess. Hit sixty not long ago, so maybe my body’s reminding me. My birthday’s actually in the fall, October 25th, if memory serves.

Doctor: Happy belated then! Any family history of arthritis or joint problems?

Patient: Not that I know of, but back where my folks are from, people didn’t always go to the doctor unless it was something serious. Being Lao, we kind of kept health stuff in the family, you know?

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Sometimes there are patterns that run in families. Do you have any other chronic conditions? High blood pressure, diabetes, or anything like that?

Patient: My blood pressure’s been holding steady. Been keeping an eye on it since my last physical. Sugar’s fine too—I get checked every year. My wedding anniversary also comes around October, so my wife and I both try to schedule our appointments around then to remember.

Doctor: Sounds like a good plan! It’s always easier with a partner to keep these routines. Are you taking any medications?

Patient: Just something for cholesterol, same as before. Everything else I just pick up over the counter. My wife keeps a spreadsheet, so I don’t forget what I’m supposed to take.

Doctor: All right. What about allergies?

Patient: Nothing major, just a bit of seasonal stuff, especially in the spring down here in TN. The pollen gets pretty bad in Memphis.

Doctor: Right, allergies are common in this part of the state this time of year. Just to confirm for my records—can I get you to spell your last name for me, and could you also confirm your current phone number?

Patient: Yeah, sure. It’s Khamphoumy. And for my cell, you need all the digits? It’s nine zero one, nine three six, seven eight four two. Sometimes if I miss your call, my wife will answer it first.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. And you’re still residing here in Tennessee, correct?

Patient: Yes, sir. Been in TN since the mid-nineties. We never could handle the cold in Minnesota, so ended up putting down roots here.

Doctor: Glad to hear it. Before we move on, just a few more health-related questions. Are you physically active?

Patient: I’m not a gym rat, but I walk the dog before work and after dinner, and do a bit of gardening on weekends. Not running marathons or anything. My wife says as long as I keep up with her pace, I’m doing all right.

Doctor: Every bit helps. Any tobacco or alcohol use?

Patient: Quit smoking thirty years ago, back when my oldest was born. I still enjoy an occasional beer, usually when I’m grilling with the neighbors.

Doctor: That’s perfectly reasonable. Any recent changes in weight or appetite?

Patient: No big changes. Weight’s been about the same since last year. My appetite’s still good—my wife makes sure of that with her cooking.

Doctor: Excellent. Now about your knees—do you notice any swelling, redness, or warmth there?

Patient: Sometimes they get a little puffy, especially after a long day on my feet, but no redness or heat.

Doctor: And you’d rate the pain as mild, moderate, or severe?

Patient: I’d say moderate. Doesn’t stop me, but it’s annoying.

Doctor: Okay, I’m going to recommend some imaging just to rule out anything serious, like arthritis or a tear. Meanwhile, you can try icing after activity and maybe some over-the-counter anti-inflammatories if needed.

Patient: Sounds good to me. And if I could get something written down for my wife, she likes to keep everything organized. Otherwise, she’ll be on my case.

Doctor: Absolutely, I’ll give you a summary printout. Anything else you’d like to talk about while you’re here?

Patient: Since I’m not getting any younger, is there anything else I should stay on top of at my age? Turned sixty-three last October, so just want to make sure I’m not missing anything.

Doctor: Good question. At sixty-three, continuing regular screenings is important—things like colonoscopy if you haven’t had one recently, prostate checks, and keeping up with vaccinations. I’ll check your records and we can discuss any that are due.

Patient: That’d be great. My wife and I like to stay on top of those things, especially since we’re getting up there in years together. Thanks for being thorough, doc.

Doctor: Of course, it’s my pleasure. If we ever need to follow up, is nine zero one, nine three six, seven eight four two still best to reach you?

Patient: Yup, that’s my cell. If I don’t pick up, my wife will.

Doctor: All right. We’ll get those knee x-rays scheduled and I’ll give you a call when results are in. Is there anything else I can answer for you today, Mr. Khamphoumy?

Patient: No, I think that covers everything for now. Appreciate you taking the time.

Doctor: My pleasure. We’ll see you soon, and don’t hesitate to call if you have any questions before your next appointment.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again, doc.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_54 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Constraint satisfaction dual problem

The dual problem is a reformulation of a constraint satisfaction problem expressing each constraint of the original problem as a variable. Dual problems only contain binary constraints, and are therefore solvable by algorithms tailored for such problems. The join graphs and join trees of a constraint satisfaction problem are graphs representing its dual problem or a problem obtained from the dual problem removing some redundant constraints.

The dual problem

The dual problem of a constraint satisfaction problem contains a variable for each constraint of the original problem. Its domains and constraints are built so to enforce a sort of equivalence to the original problem. In particular, the domain of a variable of the dual problem contains one element for each tuple satisfying the corresponding original constraint. This way, a dual variable can take a value if and only if the corresponding original constraint is satisfied by the corresponding tuple.

The constraints of the dual problem forbid two dual variables to take values that correspond to two incompatible tuples. Without these constraints, one dual variable may take the value corresponding to the tuple  while another dual variable takes the value corresponding to , which assigns a different value to . 

More generally, the constraints of the dual problem enforce the same values for all variables shared by two constraints. If two dual variables correspond to constraints sharing some variables, the dual problem contains a constraint between them, enforcing equality of all shared variables.
 

In the dual problem, all constraints are binary. They all enforce two values, which are tuples, to agree on one or more original variables.

The dual graph is a representation of how variables are constrained in the dual problem. More precisely, the dual graph contains a node for each dual variable and an edge for every constraint between them. In addition, the edge between two variables is labeled by the original variables that are enforced equal between these two dual variables.

The dual graph can be built directly from the original problem: it contains a vertex for each constraint, and an edge between every two constraints sharing variables; such an edge is labeled by these shared variables.

Join graphs and join trees

In the dual graph, some constraints may be unnecessary. Indeed, dual constraints enforces equality of original variables, and some constraints may be redundant because of transitivity of equality. For example, if   and  are joined by an edge whose label contains , and so are  and , equality of  in all three dual variables is guaranteed. As a result, a dual constraint between  and  enforcing equality of  is not necessary, and could be removed if present.

A graph obtained from the dual graph by removing some redundant edges is called a join graph. If it is a tree, it is called a join tree. The dual problem can be solved from a join graph since all removed edges are redundant. In turn, the problem can be solved efficiently if that join graph is a tree, using algorithms tailored for acyclic constraint satisfaction problems.

Finding a join tree, if any, can be done exploiting the following property: if a dual graph has a join tree, then the maximal-weight spanning trees of the graph are all join trees, if edges are weighted by the number of variables the corresponding constraints enforce to be equal. An algorithm for finding a join tree, if any, proceeds as follows. In the first step, edges are assigned weights: if two nodes represent constraints that share  variables, the edge joining them is assigned weight . In the second step, a maximal-weight spanning tree is searched for. Once one is found, it is checked whether it enforces the required equality of variables. If this is the case, this spanning tree is a join tree.

Another method for finding out whether a constraint satisfaction problem has a join tree uses the primal graph of the problem, rather than the dual...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_242 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Vibration isolation

Vibration isolation is the prevention of transmission of vibration from one component of a system to others parts of the same system, as in buildings or mechanical systems. Vibration is undesirable in many domains, primarily engineered systems and habitable spaces, and methods have been developed to prevent the transfer of vibration to such systems. Vibrations propagate via mechanical waves and certain mechanical linkages conduct vibrations more efficiently than others. Passive vibration isolation makes use of materials and mechanical linkages that absorb and damp these mechanical waves. Active vibration isolation involves sensors and actuators that produce disruptive interference that cancels-out incoming vibration.

Passive isolation
"Passive vibration isolation" refers to vibration isolation or mitigation of vibrations by passive techniques such as rubber pads or mechanical springs, as opposed to "active vibration isolation" or "electronic force cancellation" employing electric power, sensors, actuators, and control systems.

Passive vibration isolation is a vast subject, since there are many types of passive vibration isolators used for many different applications. A few of these applications are for industrial equipment such as pumps, motors, HVAC systems, or washing machines; isolation of civil engineering structures from earthquakes (base isolation), sensitive laboratory equipment, valuable statuary, and high-end audio.

A basic understanding of how passive isolation works, the more common types of passive isolators, and the main factors that influence the selection of passive isolators:

Common passive isolation systems 
 Pneumatic or air isolators
 These are bladders or canisters of compressed air. A source of compressed air is required to maintain them. Air springs are rubber bladders which provide damping as well as isolation and are used in large trucks. Some pneumatic isolators can attain low resonant frequencies and are used for isolating large industrial equipment. Air tables consist of a working surface or optical surface mounted on air legs. These tables provide enough isolation for laboratory instrument under some conditions. Air systems may leak under vacuum conditions. The air container can interfere with isolation of low-amplitude vibration.
 Mechanical springs and spring-dampers
 These are heavy-duty isolators used for building systems and industry. Sometimes they serve as mounts for a concrete block, which provides further isolation.
 Pads or sheets of flexible materials such as elastomers, rubber, cork, dense foam and laminate materials.
 Elastomer pads, dense closed cell foams and laminate materials are often used under heavy machinery, under common household items, in vehicles and even under higher performing audio systems.
 Molded and bonded rubber and elastomeric isolators and mounts
 These are often used as machinery (such as engines) mounts or in vehicles. They absorb shock and attenuate some vibration.
 Negative-stiffness isolators
 Negative-stiffness isolators are less common than other types and have generally been developed for high-level research applications such as gravity wave detection. Lee, Goverdovskiy, and Temnikov (2007) proposed a negative-stiffness system for isolating vehicle seats.

 The focus on negative-stiffness isolators has been on developing systems with very low resonant frequencies (below 1 Hz), so that low frequencies can be adequately isolated, which is critical for sensitive instrumentation. All higher frequencies are also isolated.  Negative-stiffness systems can be made with low stiction, so that they are effective in isolating low-amplitude vibrations.

 Negative-stiffness mechanisms are purely mechanical and typically involve the configuration and loading of components such as beams or inverted pendulums. Greater loading of the negative-stiffness mechanism, within the range of its operability, decreases the natural frequency.
 Wire rope isolators

 These isolators...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_194 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Large countable ordinal

In the mathematical discipline of set theory, there are many ways of describing specific countable ordinals. The smallest ones can be usefully and non-circularly expressed in terms of their Cantor normal forms. Beyond that, many ordinals of relevance to proof theory still have computable ordinal notations (see ordinal analysis). However, it is not possible to decide effectively whether a given putative ordinal notation is a notation or not (for reasons somewhat analogous to the unsolvability of the halting problem); various more-concrete ways of defining ordinals that definitely have notations are available.

Since there are only countably many notations, all ordinals with notations are exhausted well below the first uncountable ordinal ω1; their supremum is called Church–Kleene ω1 or ω (not to be confused with the first uncountable ordinal, ω1), described below. Ordinal numbers below ω are the recursive ordinals (see below). Countable ordinals larger than this may still be defined, but do not have notations.

Due to the focus on countable ordinals, ordinal arithmetic is used throughout, except where otherwise noted.  The ordinals described here are not as large as the ones described in large cardinals, but they are large among those that have constructive notations (descriptions).  Larger and larger ordinals can be defined, but they become more and more difficult to describe.

Generalities on recursive ordinals

Ordinal notations 

Recursive ordinals (or computable ordinals) are certain countable ordinals: loosely speaking those represented by a computable function.  There are several equivalent definitions of this: the simplest is to say that a computable ordinal is the order-type of some recursive (i.e., computable) well-ordering of the natural numbers; so, essentially, an ordinal is recursive when we can present the set of smaller ordinals in such a way that a computer (Turing machine, say) can manipulate them (and, essentially, compare them).

A different definition uses Kleene's system of ordinal notations. Briefly, an ordinal notation is either the name zero (describing the ordinal 0), or the successor of an ordinal notation (describing the successor of the ordinal described by that notation), or a Turing machine (computable function) that produces an increasing sequence of ordinal notations (that describe the ordinal that is the limit of the sequence), and ordinal notations are (partially) ordered so as to make the successor of o greater than o and to make the limit greater than any term of the sequence (this order is computable; however, the set O of ordinal notations itself is highly non-recursive, owing to the impossibility of deciding whether a given Turing machine does indeed produce a sequence of notations); a recursive ordinal is then an ordinal described by some ordinal notation.

Any ordinal smaller than a recursive ordinal is itself recursive, so the set of all recursive ordinals forms a certain (countable) ordinal, the Church–Kleene ordinal (see below).

It is tempting to forget about ordinal notations, and only speak of the recursive ordinals themselves: and some statements are made about recursive ordinals which, in fact, concern the notations for these ordinals.  This leads to difficulties, however, as even the smallest infinite ordinal, ω, has many notations, some of which cannot be proved to be equivalent to the obvious notation (the simplest program that enumerates all natural numbers).

Relationship to systems of arithmetic 

There is a relation between computable ordinals and certain formal systems (containing arithmetic, that is, at least a reasonable fragment of Peano arithmetic).

Certain computable ordinals are so large that while they can be given by a certain ordinal notation o, a given formal system might not be sufficiently powerful to show that o is, indeed, an ordinal notation: the system does not show transfinite induction for such large ordinals.

For example, the usual first-order Peano...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_135 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Photopolymer

A photopolymer or light-activated resin is a polymer that changes its properties when exposed to light, often in the ultraviolet or visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum. These changes are often manifested structurally, for example hardening of the material occurs as a result of cross-linking when exposed to light. An example is shown below depicting a mixture of monomers, oligomers, and photoinitiators that conform into a hardened polymeric material through a process called curing.

A wide variety of technologically useful applications rely on photopolymers; for example, some enamels and varnishes depend on photopolymer formulation for proper hardening upon exposure to light. In some instances, an enamel can cure in a fraction of a second when exposed to light, as opposed to thermally cured enamels which can require half an hour or longer. Curable materials are widely used for medical, printing, and photoresist technologies. 

Changes in structural and chemical properties can be induced internally by chromophores that the polymer subunit already possesses, or externally by addition of photosensitive molecules. Typically a photopolymer consists of a mixture of multifunctional monomers and oligomers in order to achieve the desired physical properties, and therefore a wide variety of monomers and oligomers have been developed that can polymerize in the presence of light either through internal or external initiation. Photopolymers undergo a process called curing, where oligomers are cross-linked upon exposure to light, forming what is known as a network polymer. The result of photo-curing is the formation of a thermoset network of polymers. One of the advantages of photo-curing is that it can be done selectively using high energy light sources, for example lasers, however, most systems are not readily activated by light, and in this case a photoinitiator is required. Photoinitiators are compounds that upon radiation of light decompose into reactive species that activate polymerization of specific functional groups on the oligomers. An example of a mixture that undergoes cross-linking when exposed to light is shown below. The mixture consists of monomeric styrene and oligomeric acrylates. 

Most commonly, photopolymerized systems are typically cured through UV radiation, since ultraviolet light is more energetic. However, the development of dye-based photoinitiator systems have allowed for the use of visible light, having the potential advantages of being simpler and safer to handle.  UV curing in industrial processes has greatly expanded over the past several decades. Many traditional thermally cured and solvent-based technologies can be replaced by photopolymerization technologies. The advantages of photopolymerization over thermally cured polymerization include higher rates of polymerization and environmental benefits from elimination of volatile organic solvents.

There are two general routes for photoinitiation: free radical and ionic. The general process involves doping a batch of neat polymer with small amounts of photoinitiator, followed by selective radiation of light, resulting in a highly cross-linked product. Many of these reactions do not require solvent which eliminates termination path via reaction of initiators with solvent and impurities, in addition to decreasing the overall cost.

Ionic mechanism
In ionic curing processes, an ionic photoinitiator is used to activate the functional group of the oligomers that are going to participate in cross-linking. Typically photopolymerization is a very selective process and it is crucial that the polymerization takes place only where it is desired to do so. In order to satisfy this, liquid neat oligomer can be doped with either anionic or cationic photoinitiators that will initiate polymerization only when radiated with light. Monomers, or functional groups, employed in cationic photopolymerization include: styrenic compounds, vinyl ethers, N-vinyl carbazoles,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-8 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, good morning! Thanks for squeezing me in today.

Doctor: No problem at all. What brings you in?

Patient: Lately I’ve been noticing some weird pains in my wrists and fingers, especially after I’ve had a bunch of shipments come in at work. I spend most days stocking and organizing inventory, so maybe that’s part of it.

Doctor: Okay, when did you first start noticing the pain?

Patient: I’d say about three weeks ago? That’s when the holiday rush started picking up at our warehouse, and I’ve had a lot of those really early shifts.

Doctor: Understood. Can you describe the pain? Is it sharp or more of an ache?

Patient: It’s mostly a dull soreness, but sometimes if I pick up something heavy or use the scanner a bunch in one day, it’ll get a bit sharper. I try to take breaks but it’s kind of tough with the amount of stuff we need to get done. I want to see if there’s anything I can do so it doesn’t get worse.

Doctor: Absolutely, repetitive movements can cause that, especially in your line of work. Just to clarify, what is it you do, exactly?

Patient: I’m the one who keeps track of stock levels, moves stuff around, and fills orders so everything’s in the right place for the pickers. Basically, an order filler and stockroom clerk. A lot of lifting, labeling, and moving pallets.

Doctor: Got it. Have you had any injuries to your hands or wrists in the past?

Patient: No real injuries. I mean, I got a bruise once moving a big box, but nothing where I needed more than an ice pack. This is more like a buildup, I guess.

Doctor: Have you tried anything so far to help with the pain?

Patient: I’ve used some over-the-counter pain relievers, but I’m not sure how often I should do that. At home, I’ll put a cold pack on when it gets bad and do a stretch one of my coworkers showed me.

Doctor: That’s a good start. I’ll ask a couple more questions for context. How’s your overall health outside of work?

Patient: I’d say pretty good. I’m still in my early twenties, turned twenty-one last fall, the eleventh of October, actually. No major health problems. My only concern’s really these aches lately and some sleep issues when I have to change shifts.

Doctor: Thanks, that’s helpful to know. And do you live close to your work?

Patient: Yeah, I’m about a short drive away. I stay in cali, so the commute’s not too bad depending on traffic. Sometimes it’s the 405 that slows me down.

Doctor: Okay. Any allergies or current medications?

Patient: No allergies that I know of. I’m not on any medication regularly, I just use Advil when I need it.

Doctor: Great. Now, I have a couple of quick administrative things to confirm. Are you currently working full time?

Patient: Yeah, I’m on the clock forty hours a week unless they need overtime, which, with the holidays, has been more like fifty lately. I’m not military or anything, just a regular job as a civilian worker.

Doctor: Understood. And your marital status? Are you married or in a partnership?

Patient: No, never been hitched. Still flying solo over here.

Doctor: Thank you. Sometimes that’s handy for a flexible schedule. And just so I have it for your records, can you confirm your social security for me?

Patient: Sure, it’s four three zero, dash two nine, dash seven three six zero.

Doctor: Thank you. And just checking, has your employer offered ergonomic assessments or support for repetitive strain injuries?

Patient: They did mention there’s an HR training for it, but I haven’t had a chance to go since things have been so busy in the warehouse. Is it really useful?

Doctor: It can be. They’ll often assess your workspace and recommend small changes—like wrist supports or specific stretches—that can help significantly. I’d encourage attending if you can. Also, since you mentioned pain after lifting and scanning, you may want to take advantage of any wrist braces. Sometimes simple things like that help with stabilization.

Patient: That sounds good. At home, is there anything I should try? I don’t want these aches to stick around.

Doctor: Ice, as you’ve been doing, is helpful. You can alternate with warm compresses. Basic stretches for your wrists and forearms, gentle massage, and keeping up with hand mobility exercises will also help. Try to limit repetitive movements when not working and let your hands rest. If things get worse, we might try a referral for physical therapy.

Patient: Okay, thanks. I tend to keep myself busy—I’m on my feet most of the day hunting down orders, making sure nothing’s missing. So I guess I don’t have much “rest mode” at work.

Doctor: Understandable. Just try not to push through the pain, and if your supervisor can give you some lighter duties or let you rotate tasks, that could take some pressure off your wrists.

Patient: Yeah, I’ll ask. My manager’s pretty chill as long as it doesn’t slow down the team.

Doctor: Sounds reasonable. Anything else you want to discuss today? You mentioned some sleep issues too.

Patient: Yeah—just sometimes I get put on closing and then have to be back at dawn for another shift. It messes with my sleep. I’m usually okay, but every few weeks it really gets to me.

Doctor: It’s definitely challenging, especially for someone your age just getting adjusted to that sort of schedule. Try to keep your routines as steady as possible, avoid caffeine after lunch, and maybe use some relaxation help—like gentle music, or white noise—when you do get the chance to rest.

Patient: I’ll try that. I really appreciate the advice, doc.

Doctor: My pleasure. I’ll make a note in your chart about your repetitive strain concerns and what you’re doing for them. If things get worse, or you develop any numbness or severe pain, come see me again or call right away.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again, especially for working with my schedule—I know it’s not the easiest.

Doctor: Happy to help. Good luck with the holiday rush. Take care!

Patient: Thanks, have a good one.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_185 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# New Zealand smelt

The New Zealand smelt (Retropinna retropinna), also known as the New Zealand common smelt, New Zealand cucumber fish, or silveries is a smelt of the family Retropinnidae, found only in New Zealand at shallow depths in estuaries and rivers. Their length is between 8 and 13 cm.

Species description
Retropinna retropinna are elongated silver green fish with clear fins, just larger than palm size. Smelt can be identified by the adipose fin, a small fleshy nub, located halfway between the dorsal fin and the tail. Scales, a forked tail and a distinct “cucumber smell” are other ways of distinguishing Smelt from other species. There are two species of smelt in New Zealand, the common smelt and Stokell's smelt which can only be told apart by the size and number of scales. The length of a common smelt is between 8 and 13 cm.

New Zealand range
Common smelt are widespread in North Island waterways, but not in the South island (only Stokell's smelt are found there). Smelt are found in coastal seas and estuaries as well as in freshwater streams as far as they can migrate. While Smelt are not strong upstream swimmers, they have been found up to 300 kilometres inland at an altitude of 2000m.

Habitat preferences
Smelt are sensitive to stress which means they have a narrow range of preferred conditions. Smelt live in waters between 15 and 17 degrees Celsius although they have been known to cope with temperatures up to 27 degrees. Smelt prefer waters with a pH of 8-9 and low levels of sedimentation.
There are records of smelt being both diadromous (spending part of life cycle in freshwater and part in saltwater) as well as anadromous reports (fish that spend most of their life cycle in saltwater, returning to freshwater only to breed). The Department of Conservation (2015) reports that smelt live in large shoals in estuaries, spending most of their lives at sea, but returning to freshwater as adults in the summertime. They also report that smelt can be found in lakes and lowland rivers, which is confirmed by NIWA, which states that smelt are a widespread indigenous freshwater fish.

Life cycle/phenology
To better understand the life cycle of the smelt the population must first be broken down into two groups: lacustrine/reservoir and diadromous populations. Lacustrine or reservoir referring to lake and artificially created water bodies and diadromous referring to fish that spend their life partially in freshwater, partially in saltwater. 
Diadromous smelt spend the first life stage in the sea, estuary or lower parts of rivers. In the mature stage, during spring, adults migrate upstream into lakes through river access. The fish populations then feed throughout Summer and early Autumn, spawning in late Autumn on sand bars. 
Lacustrine and reservoir smelt do not migrate, but rather feed and reproduce inside their habitats. The smelt is a semelparous species, meaning that adults usually die after spawning, at around one year of age. While not much is known about smelt breeding habits, it has been theorised that smelt may spawn several times per breeding season, but not over more than one season. 
The preferred conditions for spawning are: clean sand in water 0.5 to 2.5 metres deep in slow moving or “slack” waters. The required period for egg incubation decreases as water temperature increases, with optimal temperatures between 14 and 18 degrees Celsius. The fastest incubation times observed were found in lacustrine rather than diadromous smelt, with 8 – 10 days for lacustrine fish as compared to 10 – 18 days for the diadromous populations. 
Once the larvae have hatched they disperse through the water column at depths up to 40 metres. Larvae size ranges from 4 millimetres to approximately 30 millimetres. Once larvae have exceeded the 25mm mark they are classed as juveniles. During this stage their behaviour changes from “planktonic” to surface orientated. They begin to form schools and their depth range reduces to just 20 metres. Smelt are...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_11 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Array (data structure)

In computer science, an array is a data structure consisting of a collection of elements (values or variables), of same memory size, each identified by at least one array index or key. An array is stored such that the position of each element can be computed from its index tuple by a mathematical formula. The simplest type of data structure is a linear array, also called one-dimensional array.

For example, an array of ten 32-bit (4-byte) integer variables, with indices 0 through 9, may be stored as ten words at memory addresses 2000, 2004, 2008, ..., 2036, (in hexadecimal: 0x7D0, 0x7D4, 0x7D8, ..., 0x7F4) so that the element with index i has the address 2000 + (i × 4).
The memory address of the first element of an array is called first address, foundation address, or base address.

Because the mathematical concept of a matrix can be represented as a two-dimensional grid, two-dimensional arrays are also sometimes called "matrices". In some cases the term "vector" is used in computing to refer to an array, although tuples rather than vectors are the more mathematically correct equivalent. Tables are often implemented in the form of arrays, especially lookup tables; the word "table" is sometimes used as a synonym of array.

Arrays are among the oldest and most important data structures, and are used by almost every program. They are also used to implement many other data structures, such as lists and strings. They effectively exploit the addressing logic of computers. In most modern computers and many external storage devices, the memory is a one-dimensional array of words, whose indices are their addresses. Processors, especially vector processors, are often optimized for array operations.

Arrays are useful mostly because the element indices can be computed at run time. Among other things, this feature allows a single iterative statement to process arbitrarily many elements of an array. For that reason, the elements of an array data structure are required to have the same size and should use the same data representation. The set of valid index tuples and the addresses of the elements (and hence the element addressing formula) are usually, but not always, fixed while the array is in use.

The term "array" may also refer to an array data type, a kind of data type provided by most high-level programming languages that consists of a collection of values or variables that can be selected by one or more indices computed at run-time. Array types are often implemented by array structures; however, in some languages they may be implemented by hash tables, linked lists, search trees, or other data structures.

The term is also used, especially in the description of algorithms, to mean associative array or "abstract array", a theoretical computer science model (an abstract data type or ADT) intended to capture the essential properties of arrays.

History
The first digital computers used machine-language programming to set up and access array structures for data tables, vector and matrix computations, and for many other purposes. John von Neumann wrote the first array-sorting program (merge sort) in 1945, during the building of the first stored-program computer. Array indexing was originally done by self-modifying code, and later using index registers and indirect addressing. Some mainframes designed in the 1960s, such as the Burroughs B5000 and its successors, used memory segmentation to perform index-bounds checking in hardware.

Assembly languages generally have no special support for arrays, other than what the machine itself provides. The earliest high-level programming languages, including FORTRAN (1957), Lisp (1958), COBOL (1960), and ALGOL 60 (1960), had support for multi-dimensional arrays, and so has C (1972). In C++ (1983), class templates exist for multi-dimensional arrays whose dimension is fixed at runtime as well as for runtime-flexible arrays.

Applications
Arrays are used to implement mathematical vectors and matrices,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_178 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Stock tank

A stock tank is used to provide drinking water for animals such as cattle or horses. Stock tanks can range in size from 100 liters to over 5500 liters  (30 to 1500 gallons) and typically are made of galvanized steel. These tanks are filled either by a pump, windpump, creek, spring, rely on runoff water from rain or melting snow, or from water hauled to them in a truck. In some parts of Texas, ranchers refer to ponds and watering holes as stock tanks.

Trick tank
A trick tank is type of stock tank. It collects precipitation, holds the water in a covered tank to minimize evaporation and maintain adequate water quality, and dispenses water on demand into a basin from which animals can drink. Dispensing may be regulated by a mechanical float device similar to a ballcock in the tank of a flush toilet. Trick tanks are manufactured in several styles, including inverted umbrella and apron.  They are heavy and often are used in remote wilderness locations, to which they may require delivery via helicopter.

To provide water to wild animals, not livestock, fencing may be built to surround a trick tank.  Fences serve to exclude cattle and sheep.  Trick tanks are widely used in the southwest United States, where periodic droughts may cause population crashes in game animals unless water supplies are provided.

Other uses 

Stock tanks are increasingly used as "rustic" backyard above-ground pools, or "stock tank pools" by retrofitting a filter pump and adding chlorine or stabilized hydrogen peroxide to keep the water clean throughout the summer. The water will need to be drained periodically and can be reused to water plants if hydrogen peroxide is used. Metal stock tanks have also been used as a cheap alternative for a hot tub. Various heating methods are possible, including use of a propane heater or submersible wood stove.

Another use of a stock tank is at a fair or other event where they are filled with ice to keep canned and bottled beverages, or even perishables such as watermelons.  A cowboy church commonly uses a stock tank for water baptisms.

Stock tanks can also make perfect indoor habitats for aquatic pets, such as turtles or frogs. Tackle shops are known to store minnows for fishing in them.

References

Livestock
Water supply
Water conservation tools
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-35 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, can you help me brainstorm some things to do while I’m waiting to go back to work? I’m sort of stuck at home right now but still technically employed.

Chatbot: Of course! Are you looking for things to do at home, or are you able to step out and enjoy some activities around where you live?

Person: Mostly at home. I work for a small company but I’m on leave this week for personal reasons, so I can’t actually check in or handle anything work-related until I’m cleared. Makes for a weird, limbo kind of feeling.

Chatbot: I can imagine! Sometimes a break like that can be tough if you’re used to staying busy. Are you hoping to be productive or more in the mood for relaxation and self-care?

Person: Maybe a mix of both? I was actually thinking about doing some online classes again. I tried school before—did a year and a half of credits, mostly general ed stuff like history and psych—but never finished my degree. Sometimes I wonder if I should try again.

Chatbot: That sounds like a great idea! There are lots of flexible online courses nowadays, especially for folks who’ve already completed some college credits. Any particular subject you’re thinking about returning to?

Person: Not 100% sure. Last time it was psychology and a little sociology. Those classes really got me thinking, but life stuff always gets in the way, you know? Plus, my situation at home changed a lot, so finishing wasn’t really an option.

Chatbot: Life does have a way of tossing us curveballs. If you’re interested in psychology, there are some free and short courses online you could try—maybe just to get back in the groove before committing. Or, if you’re looking for something totally different, there are tons of creative pursuits too.

Person: That’s true. I’ve also thought about learning to cook more elaborate meals. I’m originally from the islands, so I grew up with family recipes for things like pastelón and mofongo, but I never really learned how to make them myself.

Chatbot: That’s awesome! Cooking traditional dishes from your roots can be both fun and meaningful. If you’d like, I can help you find recipes or even online cooking classes that feature cuisine from Puerto Rico or the Caribbean.

Person: Oh, that’d be perfect. Actually, I was born in the US territories, and it’s wild how many people forget that makes you an American from day one. Still, sometimes you want to keep those roots strong, especially when you’re stuck at home and feeling a bit disconnected.

Chatbot: I can help you track down some authentic recipes or even connect you with virtual cooking communities around your island heritage. Would you like step-by-step videos or just written recipes?

Person: Step-by-step would be super helpful! I think the main thing is I want to make meals that remind me of home, especially now that things are so weird in my personal life. Since my partner and I separated, it’s just me in the apartment, and eating alone gets old fast.

Chatbot: Navigating a separation can feel isolating—I’m glad you’re seeking ways to reconnect with traditions and enjoy activities you love. Would you like resources for support groups as well? Or would you prefer to focus on hobbies for now?

Person: Support groups might be a good idea too. I didn’t see the separation coming, and it’s been rough. My friends have been supportive, but it’s not always easy to talk about it, especially when you’re the one who suggested the break.

Chatbot: There are plenty of online communities where people discuss similar experiences. If you’d like, I can share links where you can connect anonymously with others going through separations. Also, many people find it helpful to journal about their feelings or set new small goals, like learning a recipe a week.

Person: I’m willing to try anything. I think, as a woman, people expect me to just pick up and move on quietly, but that’s not really me. I want to talk about it—but sometimes in a safe, anonymous way. And journaling does sound like something that might help, especially since this downtime from work leaves me with too much time to think.

Chatbot: You mentioned you’re on leave but still have your job, which is fortunate. Do you know when you’ll be able to return to work? Or is it an open-ended situation for now?

Person: They said I could come back in two weeks, as long as everything’s lined up with HR. My boss has been supportive, but I wish I felt more useful right now. Having a job but not being able to do it just adds to that feeling of limbo.

Chatbot: Totally understandable. If you want, I can help you create a daily routine, including time for learning, self-care, and trying out new dishes. That might help structure your days so the time passes more smoothly.

Person: That would be helpful. Maybe even set reminders for when to check in on virtual support groups or block out time for cooking experimentations. I get sidetracked easily, especially with all the notifications blowing up my email.

Chatbot: Speaking of email, do you want to set up organization tools for your inbox? I can suggest filters or apps that help keep things tidy so you don’t feel overwhelmed when you log into mariarivera73-at-gee mail-dot-com or wherever your inbox lives.

Person: Yes, please! The spam has been out of control lately. Sometimes I think it’d be easier to just delete everything and start over, but then I’d lose all my old school notifications and work contacts.

Chatbot: I can walk you through some filter options and maybe recommend a free app to help clean things up. Let’s also make sure important emails—like those from your job—never end up in the junk folder.

Person: That’s exactly what I need. Thanks for your help! And honestly, I appreciate being able to talk about all this stuff with someone who’s not going to judge or get tired of listening.

Chatbot: Of course! I’m always here to help. Let’s put together a simple routine for the next two weeks, find you some soulful recipes, and tidy up that inbox. And whenever you need to talk, just drop by.

Person: Sounds like a plan! Thanks again. Might even invite a friend over for a “practice” dinner if I can nail a couple of those recipes.

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic goal! Cooking good food and sharing it, even if just with one friend, can help brighten the days ahead. Let’s get started!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-84 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there! Thank you for inviting me to chat today. I should let you know up front—I'm currently civilian employed, but I’m not at work right now, so my schedule’s pretty flexible.

Other: Thanks so much for joining, and I appreciate you making the time! Just confirming for our records, could you remind me of your role and your background?

Target: Absolutely. My current occupation is in the arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media field. Specifically, I work as an editor for a digital magazine.

Other: That sounds really interesting! And what’s your highest level of education?

Target: I completed my bachelor's degree a few years ago, with a major in English.

Other: Got it, thank you. It's always helpful to know—we get a lot of applicants from a broad range of educational backgrounds. Since this is a remote opportunity, can you share which state you’re currently residing in?

Target: Of course. I live in Colorado, so I’m in the Mountain Time Zone.

Other: Perfect. Do you mind sharing your preferred contact number, just in case I need to reach you to follow up?

Target: Sure, my phone number is (303) 922-2262. You can call or text me anytime.

Other: Thank you, I have it down. Diving a bit deeper into your work as an editor in the arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media realm—what does your day-to-day look like?

Target: My typical day starts with reviewing submissions from writers and artists. I spend a lot of time editing articles and collaborating with other editors. Since I’m currently employed, but working remotely, it gives me flexibility, though I’m officially not at work when we’re having this conversation.

Other: That’s great to hear, and I appreciate your candor. As someone who’s female in the media editing space, have you noticed any trends or changes lately with regards to diversity or representation?

Target: As a woman editor, definitely. There's been an increasing emphasis on diversity both in staffing and the stories we publish. It's part of why I enjoy my job as a female editor—you get to champion voices that might otherwise go unheard.

Other: Love to hear that. Going back to your background—you mentioned earning a bachelor's degree in English. Where did you go to school, if you don’t mind my asking?

Target: I graduated from the University of Colorado Boulder. Staying in-state just made sense for me, and it’s been nice being able to build both my education and career in Colorado.

Other: That’s wonderful! So, you mentioned earlier you’re civilian employed, with a job but not at work. Have you always worked in editing, or did you explore other areas within arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media before landing your current position?

Target: I actually started out interning at a local publishing company while completing my bachelor's degree, which helped me get a foot in the door. From there, I gradually moved into editorial roles. But yes, I’ve always gravitated towards editing within the broader arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media landscape.

Other: With your professional and educational milestones, what would you say is your proudest accomplishment so far?

Target: Honestly, getting my bachelor's degree was a big one for me, but also being promoted to lead editor last year felt like a huge step forward, especially as a woman working in media.

Other: Congratulations—well deserved! Since you’re based in Colorado, do you focus mostly on regional content, or is your reach broader?

Target: Our publication covers both Colorado-centric topics and national features. Being based here gives us some unique insights into the local arts and entertainment scene.

Other: Good to know. And since you’re currently employed, but not at work during this chat, do you see yourself staying in digital editing for the long-term?

Target: I do. Being an editor in the arts, design, entertainment, sports, and media sector is truly my passion. I find it rewarding, especially given my academic background and interest in storytelling.

Other: Nice! If we schedule a follow-up, would you prefer I reach out to you at (303) 922-2262, or is email better?

Target: (303) 922-2262 works great for calls or texts, but feel free to email me as well if that’s more convenient.

Other: Thank you so much. It’s clear you bring a lot of value both professionally and academically. Is there anything else you’d like us to know?

Target: Just that I’m excited for new opportunities and happy to bring my experience as a civilian employed editor with a bachelor's degree to new projects. And again, I’m always reachable at my Colorado number, (303) 922-2262.

Other: I appreciate your time and transparency. We’ll be in touch soon, and thank you again for taking this call while you’re not at work!

Target: My pleasure—thanks for having me. Looking forward to connecting again!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_298 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Molecular beacon

Molecular beacons, or molecular beacon probes, are oligonucleotide hybridization probes that can report the presence of specific nucleic acids in homogenous solutions. Molecular beacons are hairpin-shaped molecules with an internally quenched fluorophore whose fluorescence is restored when they bind to a target nucleic acid sequence. This is a novel non-radioactive method for detecting specific sequences of nucleic acids. They are useful in situations where it is either not possible or desirable to isolate the probe-target hybrids from an excess of the hybridization probes.

Molecular beacon probes

A typical molecular beacon probe is 25 nucleotides long. The middle 15 nucleotides are complementary to the target DNA or RNA and do not base pair with one another, while the five nucleotides at each terminus are complementary to each other rather than to the target DNA. A typical molecular beacon structure can be divided in 4 parts: 1) loop, an 18–30 base pair region of the molecular beacon that is complementary to the target sequence; 2) stem formed by the attachment to both termini of the loop of two short (5 to 7 nucleotide residues) oligonucleotides that are complementary to each other; 3) 5' fluorophore at the 5' end of the molecular beacon, a fluorescent dye is covalently attached; 4) 3' quencher (non fluorescent) dye that is covalently attached to the 3' end of the molecular beacon. When the beacon is in closed loop shape, the quencher resides in proximity to the fluorophore, which results in quenching the fluorescent emission of the latter.

If the nucleic acid to be detected is complementary to the strand in the loop, the event of hybridization occurs. The duplex formed between the nucleic acid and the loop is more stable than that of the stem because the former duplex involves more base pairs. This causes the separation of the stem and hence of the fluorophore and the quencher. Once the fluorophore is no longer next to the quencher, illumination of the hybrid with light results in the fluorescent emission. The presence of the emission reports that the event of hybridization has occurred and hence the target nucleic acid sequence is present in the test sample.

Use in Cell Engineering
Fluorogenic signaling oligonucleotide probes were reported for use to detect and isolate cells expressing one or more desired genes, including the production of multigene stable cell lines expressing heteromultimeric epithelial sodium channel (αβγ-ENaC), sodium voltage-gated ion channel 1.7 (NaV1.7-αβ1β2), four unique γ-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor ion channel subunit combinations α1β3γ2s, α2β3γ2s, α3β3γ2s and α5β3γ2s, cystic fibrosis conductance regulator (CFTR), CFTR-Δ508 and two G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).

Synthesis

Molecular beacons are synthetic oligonucleotides whose preparation is well documented. In addition to the conventional set of nucleoside phosphoramidites, the synthesis also requires a solid support derivatized with a quencher and a phosphoramidite building block designed for the attachment of a protected fluorescent dye.

The first use of the term molecular beacons, synthesis and demonstration of function was in 1996.

Alternative homogeneous assay technologies
5'-nuclease TaqMan assay
Exciton-controlled hybridization-sensitive fluorescent oligonucleotide (ECHO) probes.
Dual Hybridization (LightCycler®) probes
Scorpions® Probes
LUX (Light Upon Extension) Probes
DNA binding dye assays (e.g., SYBR Green, SYTO9, Melt Doctor, LCGreen Plus, etc.)

Applications
SNP detection
Real-time nucleic acid detection
Real-time PCR quantification
Allelic discrimination and identification
Multiplex PCR assays
Diagnostic clinical assays

References 

Biochemistry methods
Fluorescence
Genetics techniques
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-43 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi! Thanks for connecting today. I know it’s a bit early, but I tend to start my days pretty early too. Time zones and all that.

Other: No problem at all, I’ve got my coffee ready! How’s your morning looking so far?

Target: Not bad, actually. Had to patch up a pair of oxfords for a customer first thing, which always gets my hands moving. How about you?

Other: I wish my mornings were as productive as that! I just always seem to run late until I’m properly caffeinated. So, just to get some context, what do you find most interesting about your day-to-day right now?

Target: Hmm, honestly, there’s a real satisfaction in turning something nearly worn through back into something someone can wear with pride again. Not glamorous, but there’s a craft to fixing old favorites—the kind of thing my grandfather used to do back in Tokyo, actually.

Other: That’s really cool! It must feel like you’re carrying on a bit of a family tradition then, even if you’re halfway across the ocean now.

Target: For sure. The first pair of shoes I worked on, my mom sent me a care package with those small brushes and old tins—the ones you see in Japanese shops back home. I still use them sometimes, even though most people out here would just toss their shoes instead.

Other: There’s something special about restoring rather than replacing, definitely. I bet a lot of your clients appreciate that, especially these days. 

Target: Yeah, you’d be surprised. People get so sentimental about their footwear. I think being here in the PNW, where the rain never seems to quit, makes folks more attached to a good pair of boots. I think some of my clients would rather mend the same pair of Danners a dozen times than buy new ones.

Other: That’s resourceful! So, do you focus more on repairs, or do you also get to make custom stuff?

Target: It’s mostly repairs and restoration—heel replacements, new soles, that kind of thing. Occasionally, I get commissioned to make bespoke belts or do some leatherwork for purses. But it’s mainly fixing what’s been damaged. I don’t mind; I’m used to being on my feet most of the day, working the machines or stitching by hand if a repair is fussy.

Other: I imagine your schedule must vary a lot, depending on rush orders or special requests from clients?

Target: Absolutely. There are days when the shop is so busy I barely get to look up from my bench. And others, like Mondays, tend to be quieter. I use that time to sort through piles of shoes that need quick fixes, or to work on something more challenging—like repairing a pair of loafers a kid’s dog decided to use as a chew toy.

Other: I love that visual! Are you working solo, or do you have a team helping you out?

Target: It’s just me, actually. The shop’s small, and I prefer it that way—it’s easier to focus. Sometimes I’ll get a friend to help if there’s an overwhelming number of repairs, especially after the rainier weeks when everyone’s shoes have been soaked through again.

Other: Do you get walk-ins mostly, or is it more of an appointment setup?

Target: Mostly walk-ins, but lately a lot of folks drop things off and come back later after running errands around town. It works out. The place is pretty conveniently located; there’s a record store and a ramen shop next door, so people tend to linger around this block.

Other: Sounds like a cozy neighborhood. Are you originally from the area, or did you come here for work?

Target: I actually grew up much further east, but came out here for—well, let’s just say the rain took a while to get used to. I stayed after visiting because the city felt just right. There’s something about seeing Mount Rainier peek out on a clear day that’s hard to beat.

Other: I know exactly what you mean! I visited Seattle last summer and got lucky with the weather. It was gorgeous.

Target: People here always say, if you can see the mountain, it’s going to rain. If you can’t see it, it’s already raining! But yes, on the rare sunny days, it’s amazing. And there’s such a strong sense of community—I had barely arrived before people started asking me to repair their hiking boots.

Other: Have you always known you wanted to work with your hands? Or was this something you discovered along the way?

Target: I think I always gravitated toward tactile work. When I was a kid, my idea of fun was taking apart my sneakers to see how they were put together. I tried college right after high school, but I didn’t really click with lectures or group projects. I’d rather have a table full of tools than a pile of textbooks.

Other: And now you get to make a living doing what you love. That’s rare! 

Target: I’m grateful for it. It’s honest work and it keeps me focused. Plus, every pair of shoes tells its own story, so it never gets boring.

Other: True! So, if you don’t mind me asking, do you have family here, or is it just you?

Target: It’s just me for now. My folks and extended family are scattered—some back in Aomori, a cousin in LA, but nobody else nearby. I keep in touch, but I’m pretty independent. Most of my social circle here is from the shop or my local climbing gym.

Other: I get that. It can be tough to meet people in a new city, especially when you’re busy running a business on your own. Have you found it easy to make friends outside work?

Target: It takes effort, for sure. I go out with a few friends for karaoke sometimes, or hit the night market in the International District. I’m also part of a little group that plays Mario Kart and eats takoyaki on Saturday nights—keeps me sane! And people are always willing to help someone who can fix a broken zipper or re-stitch a backpack.

Other: I love that! Seattle does have great food scenes. What about weekends? Do you get much time to yourself, or is there always a new repair job waiting?

Target: I try to keep Sundays free for exploring new places—sometimes a hike up Tiger Mountain, or just hanging out at the local onsen. But if there’s a stack of shoes or a rush before a holiday, I’ll usually be in my workshop for a few more hours.

Other: You seem pretty content with your routine. Did you ever consider going into business doing something else?

Target: Not really, to be honest. I thought about teaching, once or twice, but I always come back to working with leather and shoes. There’s no desk or endless emails—just tools, stitches, and making things whole again. My friends used to joke that I’m the only one from high school who didn’t end up in a tech job.

Other: That’s refreshing. The world needs more people who can work with their hands. Have you found any unique challenges in your line of work?

Target: Definitely—especially with supply issues. Sometimes the exact color thread or leather I need is sold out, and I have to wait for a shipment from overseas. There are also a lot of expectations that things should be cheap and fast, but proper repairs take time. Sometimes I feel like I have to educate people about the value of craftsmanship.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. What’s the most interesting or unusual repair you’ve done lately?

Target: Someone brought in a pair of geta with the thongs busted—said they hadn’t been worn since their grandmother’s coming-of-age ceremony. Took some research and close-up video calls with relatives overseas, but I managed to restore them. Those kinds of jobs make all the usual heel lifts and patch-ups worthwhile.

Other: That’s amazing. Clearly, you’re the go-to person for anything leather or shoe-related. Have you gotten return business from people after a big repair like that?

Target: Oh, for sure. Word of mouth works wonders. Sometimes a client will bring in their partner or their roommate’s shoes after seeing the results. One time, someone even brought in an old kendo glove to see if I could save it—different material, but close enough! 

Other: I love how diverse your projects are. Do you think that’s why you’ve stayed in the same field?

Target: It definitely keeps me on my toes—no pun intended. There’s always something new to learn, and every job is a chance to improve. Plus, I get to meet people from all walks of life. Sometimes I think working with shoes gives you a glimpse into someone’s journey.

Other: No kidding. You probably have a sixth sense for reading people by their footwear.

Target: Maybe! I do get a kick when someone comes in with tabi boots and we end up swapping stories about festivals or sushi spots back home.

Other: Ha, that must make for great conversations. Do you ever get homesick?

Target: Sometimes, especially around the New Year, when family gatherings are a big deal. I’ll make ozoni and call my folks if I can. But the cherry blossoms in the University District here are a close second to home.

Other: That’s beautiful. I didn’t realize Seattle had cherry blossoms!

Target: They do, big time. In spring, the quad fills up with petals and everyone’s out taking photos. It almost feels like Ueno Park, except with more umbrellas.

Other: Speaking of, do you keep any of your family’s traditions alive? Or have you started some new ones in your neighborhood?

Target: A bit of both. I’m always the one bringing mochi to the potluck, and I join my friends for hanami when the trees bloom. But I also love finding little rituals unique to here, like grabbing coffee at Pike Place early, or lining up at the Filipino bakery near the pier.

Other: Sounds like you’ve found a nice blend. Do you ever get any downtime to travel? Or is it pretty much work and local explorations these days?

Target: I take short trips when I can—maybe down to Mount St. Helens, or to visit my cousin in Portland. But mostly, I stay put. There’s always a stack of shoes waiting, and someone relying on me to get them back on the road—or trail, as the case may be.

Other: You seem very dedicated. Is your shop something you see yourself running long-term?

Target: For now, yes. I enjoy being part of the local fabric, if you’ll forgive the pun. Community matters, and this work lets me put down roots—even if it’s far from where I started.

Other: I think it’s admirable. Oh—before I forget, a little off-topic, but you mentioned your schedule fills up quickly. Do you find it tough balancing work and social life?

Target: Sometimes. When you’re tied to the bench all day, it’s easy for days to slip by without much outside interaction. But I try to make an effort—Friday nights are for hanging out with friends, and on quiet evenings, you’ll find me tinkering with a new boot pattern while streaming Studio Ghibli movies.

Other: That actually sounds pretty relaxing. Last question: Any advice for someone thinking about working with their hands for a living?

Target: Take your time to learn the basics well, stay curious, and don’t mind getting your hands dirty. And if you’re ever second-guessing yourself, just remember—people notice when you put care into what you do, even in the little details.

Other: Thank you so much for sharing your story. It’s really inspiring and gives me a new appreciation for those who keep our shoes—and traditions—going strong.

Target: Thanks! It’s been nice chatting. If you’re ever in the city and your boots look like they’ve seen better days, you know where to find me.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_38 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Complex number

In mathematics, a complex number is an element of a number system that extends the real numbers with a specific element denoted , called the imaginary unit and satisfying the equation ; every complex number can be expressed in the form , where  and  are real numbers. Because no real number satisfies the above equation,  was called an imaginary number by René Descartes. For the complex number ,  is called the , and  is called the . The set of complex numbers is denoted by either of the symbols  or . Despite the historical nomenclature "imaginary", complex numbers are regarded in the mathematical sciences as just as "real" as the real numbers and are fundamental in many aspects of the scientific description of the natural world.

Complex numbers allow solutions to all polynomial equations, even those that have no solutions in real numbers. More precisely, the fundamental theorem of algebra asserts that every non-constant polynomial equation with real or complex coefficients has a solution which is a complex number. For example, the equation

has no real solution, since the square of a real number cannot be negative, but has the two nonreal complex solutions  and .

Addition, subtraction and multiplication of complex numbers can be naturally defined by using the rule  combined with the associative, commutative, and distributive laws. Every nonzero complex number has a multiplicative inverse. This makes the complex numbers a field that has the real numbers as a subfield. The complex numbers also form a real vector space of dimension two, with  as a standard basis.

This standard basis makes the complex numbers a Cartesian plane, called the complex plane. This allows a geometric interpretation of the complex numbers and their operations, and conversely expressing in terms of complex numbers some geometric properties and constructions. For example, the real numbers form the real line which is identified to the horizontal axis of the complex plane. The complex numbers of absolute value one form the unit circle. The addition of a complex number is a translation in the complex plane, and the multiplication by a complex number is a similarity centered at the origin. The complex conjugation is the reflection symmetry with respect to the real axis. The complex absolute value is a Euclidean norm.

In summary, the complex numbers form a rich structure that is simultaneously an algebraically closed field, a commutative algebra over the reals, and a Euclidean vector space of dimension two.

Definition

A complex number is a number of the form , where  and  are real numbers, and  is an indeterminate satisfying . For example,  is a complex number.

This way, a complex number is defined as a polynomial with real coefficients in the single indeterminate , for which the relation  is imposed. Based on this definition, complex numbers can be added and multiplied, using the addition and multiplication for polynomials. The relation  induces the equalities  and  which hold for all integers ; these allow the reduction of any polynomial that results from the addition and multiplication of complex numbers to a linear polynomial in , again of the form  with real coefficients 

The real number  is called the real part of the complex number ; the real number  is called its imaginary part. To emphasize, the imaginary part does not include a factor ; that is, the imaginary part is , not .

Formally, the complex numbers are defined as the quotient ring of the polynomial ring in the indeterminate , by the ideal generated by the polynomial  (see below).

Notation

A real number  can be regarded as a complex number , whose imaginary part is 0. A purely imaginary number  is a complex number , whose real part is zero. As with polynomials, it is common to write  for  and  for . Moreover, when the imaginary part is negative, that is, , it is common to write  instead of ; for example, for ,  can be written instead of .

Since the multiplication of the indeterminate ...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-65 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all. What brings you in today?

Patient: First, can I confirm that you have my information? My name, date of birth—22 February 1974?

Doctor: Yes, I see that on your file. Just to double-check, could you spell your last name for me?

Patient: Sure, it’s spelled G-R-E-E-N-W-O-O-D. And if you ever need to contact me, my phone number is (978) 343-5373.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. Now, how can I help you today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling a bit more stressed than usual lately. I work as a counselor in community and social service, and between work and everything else, it’s just been a lot lately.

Doctor: I can imagine. Counseling is rewarding but can be quite emotionally demanding. Are you currently employed and at work?

Patient: Yeah, I am. I’m civilian employed, at work full-time at the agency here in Lowell.

Doctor: And you’re living in Massachusetts, correct?

Patient: That’s right. I live in Massachusetts—Fitchburg, to be specific.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. For our files, what do you self-identify as in terms of race?

Patient: My race is white.

Doctor: Understood. Let's talk a bit more about how you’re feeling. Can you tell me a bit about the stress you mentioned? Has anything changed recently on the job, or is this more ongoing?

Patient: It’s been building over the last few months. The cases I work with are complex, and I think the pandemic’s aftereffects have made things harder for a lot of our clients. I love what I do, but sometimes I worry I’m taking it home with me.

Doctor: Are you experiencing symptoms like trouble sleeping, irritability, or changes in appetite?

Patient: Trouble sleeping, yes. It’s like I can’t shut off my mind after a day at work. Appetite is okay, maybe some snacking more than usual, but nothing drastic. The biggest thing is I’m just tired.

Doctor: Any other symptoms? For example, headaches, chest pain, or anything out of the ordinary physically?

Patient: Headaches, occasionally—mostly tension headaches, I think—across the forehead and temples. No chest pain though.

Doctor: Thank you for letting me know. Out of interest, are you currently on any medications or supplements?

Patient: Only a multivitamin in the mornings. No prescribed medication at this point.

Doctor: Any family history of mental health concerns, anxiety, or depression?

Patient: My mother struggled with anxiety. Otherwise, no major mental health diagnoses in the family that I know of.

Doctor: Okay. Have you ever talked to a therapist or sought any mental health support yourself?

Patient: I have, yes. As part of my own training as a counselor, I did some sessions, and I’ve always tried to be mindful about self-care. Lately, though, I haven’t made time for that kind of support.

Doctor: It can be easy to let those things slide with a busy schedule. Do you have strategies you usually use to manage stress?

Patient: Exercise, mostly—walking or biking. I try to do something active a few times a week, but the weather in Massachusetts this winter hasn’t helped with getting outside.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Are you comfortable if I ask about your alcohol or substance use?

Patient: Sure. I don’t drink much—maybe a glass of wine a week, sometimes less. No other substances.

Doctor: Good to know. Do you have a support system outside of work—friends, family, anyone you can talk things through with?

Patient: I have a few close friends and my partner. They’re supportive, but I try not to burden them too much with work stuff.

Doctor: I understand that impulse, but leaning on your support system is important. Just so I’m clear for your records: to confirm, your date of birth is 22 February 1974, and you’re still at your same address in Massachusetts?

Patient: Yes, that’s correct.

Doctor: Thank you. You mentioned your phone number is (978) 343-5373, is that still the best way to reach you if I need to follow up?

Patient: Yes, that’s my cell. Please use that if you need to reach out.

Doctor: Perfect. Regarding your work, how do you feel overall about your current job as a counselor in the community and social service sector?

Patient: I’m passionate about my role. Being a counselor is meaningful to me, and I see real changes in people’s lives. I just want to make sure I’m looking after my own health too. Sometimes being constantly “on” for others is hard.

Doctor: Absolutely. Burnout can happen, especially in roles like yours. Would you be interested in scheduling a referral to talk to a professional about what you’re experiencing?

Patient: Yes, I think that would be helpful. Having that space might make a difference.

Doctor: Great. I can give you a list of therapists in Massachusetts who accept your insurance. We can also talk about stress management techniques you can use daily.

Patient: That sounds good. I definitely could use some new tools for managing it all, especially during the busy season at work.

Doctor: And just to double-check, you are currently civilian employed, at work as a counselor. Is that correct?

Patient: Yes, that’s correct. Still working full-time at the agency.

Doctor: Thank you. Before we wrap up, is there anything else you’d like to talk about? Any physical health concerns?

Patient: No, I think that covers my main worries. Thank you for taking the time to listen.

Doctor: Of course. I’ll set up the referral for you, and if you need anything before then, just give us a call at the office or I can reach you at (978) 343-5373.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate it.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Take care, and remember, prioritizing your own well-being helps you support others, too.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-64 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good morning! Thank you for logging in today. I’m here to help you complete your Social Security benefits review. Could you please confirm your full name and your date of birth to get us started?

Target: Of course. My name is Elena Rivera, and my date of birth is October 13, 1943.

Other: Thank you, Ms. Rivera. I see your records here. For further verification, can you please provide the last four digits of your Social Security number?

Target: Certainly. The full Social Security Number is 852-40-3924.

Other: Perfect, that matches our records. Now, can you tell me your employment status as of today?

Target: Yes, I am not in the labor force. I haven’t had a formal job in quite a while and I am currently not seeking employment.

Other: Thank you for clarifying. And just to confirm, what is your current marital status?

Target: I am separated.

Other: Thank you for providing those details. For the next question, we just need to verify your place of birth. Could you tell me where you were born?

Target: I was born in Puerto Rico.

Other: Thank you, Ms. Rivera. That’s helpful for our records that your U.S. citizenship status derives from your birth in Puerto Rico. Let’s move forward. We do have your sex listed as female. Could you confirm that for me, please?

Target: Yes, I am female.

Other: Excellent, thank you. Now, I see that you’re not currently working and are not looking for work—is that accurate?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. Like I mentioned before, I am not in the labor force.

Other: Understood, and that’s been the case for a while, correct?

Target: Yes, I retired several years ago and have not reentered the workforce.

Other: Thank you for clarifying that. Now, as someone who was born in Puerto Rico, would you like to discuss any specific concerns regarding your citizenship status or eligibility for benefits?

Target: No, I haven’t had any issues. Since I was born in Puerto Rico, I’ve always had U.S. citizenship and my documents are in order.

Other: That’s great to hear. Just to be extra thorough, may I confirm your full Social Security Number one more time for the official form?

Target: Of course, it’s 852-40-3924.

Other: Thank you, Ms. Rivera. And regarding your marital status—so, you’re separated but not legally divorced, is that right?

Target: Yes, I’m separated. We’re not divorced, but we have lived separately for many years.

Other: Thank you for being so clear. And can you confirm, to the best of your knowledge, the last year you were employed?

Target: I believe the last year I worked was in 2002. After that, I left the workforce and I have been not in the labor force ever since.

Other: Thank you. For our demographics reporting, can you verify how you identify in terms of sex?

Target: I identify as female.

Other: I appreciate your cooperation, Ms. Rivera. Now, just for accuracy, could you spell your full name for me as it appears on your official documents?

Target: Sure, it’s E-L-E-N-A R-I-V-E-R-A.

Other: Perfect. Let’s proceed to update your current contact information. Do you still reside at your previous address in San Juan?

Target: Yes, I still live there.

Other: Thank you. Now, regarding your birth in Puerto Rico, have you ever encountered any special requirements or paperwork when proving citizenship for federal benefit programs?

Target: Not really. Whenever I need to submit proof, I just provide my birth certificate showing I was born in Puerto Rico, and it’s always accepted.

Other: That’s good to know. Going back to your Social Security Number, you said it’s 852-40-3924, correct?

Target: Yes, that is correct.

Other: Thank you for confirming. You were born on October 13, 1943, and as a female who’s not in the labor force and is currently separated, all of that will be reflected in your record. Is there anything else you’d like to update or any concerns about your benefits eligibility?

Target: No, I just want to make sure all my information is up to date, and that my status as someone who was born in Puerto Rico is clear for any future correspondence.

Other: I have that noted, and your citizenship status as born in Puerto Rico is recorded. Thank you, Ms. Rivera. One last question: occasionally, we ask for your full Social Security Number for additional security. Would you mind repeating it just once more for the form?

Target: Not at all. My Social Security Number is 852-40-3924.

Other: Excellent. I truly appreciate your patience and thoroughness with these questions. Just a few closing items. Your date of birth is October 13, 1943, your employment status is not in the labor force, you are separated, you are female, and your SSN is 852-40-3924, correct?

Target: Yes, all of that is correct. Thank you for confirming with me.

Other: Thank you so much for your time today. If you have any further concerns or need to update your records again, don’t hesitate to reach out. Take care and have a wonderful rest of your day.

Target: Thank you, you as well.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_93 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Weapons-grade nuclear material

Weapons-grade nuclear material  is any fissionable nuclear material that is pure enough to make a nuclear weapon or has properties that make it particularly suitable for nuclear weapons use. Plutonium and uranium in grades normally used in nuclear weapons are the most common examples. (These nuclear materials have other categorizations based on their purity.)

Only fissile isotopes of certain elements have the potential for use in nuclear weapons. For such use, the concentration of fissile isotopes uranium-235 and plutonium-239 in the element used must be sufficiently high. Uranium from natural sources is enriched by isotope separation, and plutonium is produced in a suitable nuclear reactor.

Experiments have been conducted with uranium-233 (the fissile material at the heart of the thorium fuel cycle). Neptunium-237 and some isotopes of americium might be usable, but it is not clear that this has ever been implemented. The latter substances are part of the minor actinides in spent nuclear fuel.

Critical mass 

Any weapons-grade nuclear material must have a critical mass that is small enough to justify its use in a weapon.  The critical mass for any material is the smallest amount needed for a sustained nuclear chain reaction.  Moreover, different isotopes have different critical masses, and the critical mass for many radioactive isotopes is infinite, because the mode of decay of one atom cannot induce similar decay of more than one neighboring atom.  For example, the critical mass of uranium-238 is infinite, while the critical masses of uranium-233 and uranium-235 are finite.  

The critical mass for any isotope is influenced by any impurities and the physical shape of the material.  The shape with minimal critical mass and the smallest physical dimensions is a sphere. Bare-sphere critical masses at normal density of some actinides are listed in the accompanying table. Most information on bare sphere masses is classified, but some documents have been declassified.

Countries that have produced weapons-grade nuclear material

At least ten countries have produced weapons-grade nuclear material:
 Five recognized "nuclear-weapon states" under the terms of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT): the United States (first nuclear weapon tested and two bombs used as weapons in 1945), Russia (first weapon tested in 1949), the United Kingdom (1952), France (1960), and China (1964)
 Three other declared nuclear states that are not signatories of the NPT: India (not a signatory, weapon tested in 1974), Pakistan (not a signatory, weapon tested in 1998), and North Korea (withdrew from the NPT in 2003, weapon tested in 2006)
 Israel, which is widely known to have developed nuclear weapons (likely first tested in the 1960s or 1970s) but has not openly declared its capability
 South Africa, which also had enrichment capabilities and developed nuclear weapons (possibly tested in 1979), but disassembled its arsenal and joined the NPT in 1991

Weapons-grade uranium

Natural uranium is made weapons-grade through isotopic enrichment. Initially only about 0.7% of it is fissile U-235, with the rest being almost entirely uranium-238 (U-238). They are separated by their differing masses. Highly enriched uranium is considered weapons-grade when it has been enriched to about 90% U-235.

U-233 is produced from thorium-232 by neutron capture. The U-233 produced thus does not require enrichment and can be relatively easily chemically separated from residual Th-232. It is therefore regulated as a special nuclear material only by the total amount present. U-233 may be intentionally down-blended with U-238 to remove proliferation concerns.

While U-233 would thus seem ideal for weaponization, a significant obstacle to that goal is the co-production of trace amounts of uranium-232 due to side-reactions. U-232 hazards, a result of its highly radioactive decay products such as thallium-208, are significant even at 5 parts per million. Implosion nuclear...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-72 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Morning! I hope you didn’t have any trouble joining the call? The weather up here’s got the internet acting up again.

Other: No problems on my end! I’m glad you could join, especially before you had to head out for your shift. Am I catching you before or after the early start?

Target: You’re lucky—today I don’t need to be at the floor until after lunch. Usually, my first alarm rings at five, but I got to sleep in a bit today. Makes a world of difference.

Other: I bet. It sounds like you have a pretty demanding routine. How do you manage to keep your energy up for those long stretches?

Target: Well, years of getting up before sunrise to beat traffic to the plant kind of wires you for life. Honestly, if I don’t hear the hum of machines around me by seven, it feels like something’s missing. But a big mug of drip coffee and a little pep talk from my better half helps, too.

Other: That’s a sweet shout-out. Do you guys often coordinate schedules or do you work pretty different hours?

Target: Oh, she’s got regular days right now, but we do what we can. I try to pick up more evening shifts when she’s working weekends so we get at least one day together. Our calendars are a patchwork—sometimes it’s just waving at each other over a quick breakfast.

Other: That sounds like juggling! Do you find it tough to plan vacations—or just nights out together?

Target: Nights out, sure—I mean, there’s only so much you can do after a ten-hour day on your feet. But we’ll drive over to the Dells whenever there’s a long weekend. There's a little supper club we found that serves the kind of Friday fish fry you only get in these parts. It reminds me of growing up—you’d see the same faces, week in and week out.

Other: That’s a classic Midwestern tradition. Hey, do you mind if I ask what first got you started at the plant?

Target: Not at all. My folks didn’t go to college, so after I walked across the stage that spring, I wanted to get to work, not sign up for more classes. There was a flyer at the grocery store for new operators, and they said if you were decent with your hands and could learn to troubleshoot, they’d teach you the rest. I figured, why not? Beats waiting tables, and I liked working with my hands already.

Other: It sounds like you found your groove. What’s a typical assignment like for you these days?

Target: I mostly get placed at the rows with the newer units now. They’re faster, but more fiddly. The last few months, we’ve been switching up materials, so my whole section needs to be precise—can’t have one crooked seam and ruin a batch, especially when an order needs to go cross-country. I joke that I see more thread and scissors than I do sunlight.

Other: I imagine that level of detail must be tiring on the eyes. Do you rotate roles or is it usually the same bench day after day?

Target: There’s a little rotation, but once you’re steady with those machines, they keep you right there. You get used to the rhythm—the constant whirr, checking your hands so you don’t get pricked. Sometimes the supervisors will ask me to train new hires, which helps break it up. I like showing them tricks I picked up from the veterans.

Other: Training others is a real testament to your experience. Do your coworkers ever talk about how things have changed over the years?

Target: Oh, for sure. You hear stories in the breakroom about when the floor had a dozen more lines and work never really slowed down, even during winter storms. Now, folks say if you’ve lasted this long, you’ve probably seen it all—broken belts, tight deadlines, even the year when half the town lost power for a week in February and somehow, management still got orders out on schedule.

Other: Feels like the kind of job where you build stories for a lifetime. How do you keep everything balanced, especially with the odd hours and being on your feet so much?

Target: It really helps knowing I’m not doing it for myself alone. My other half’s waiting for me at home, and we each do our part to keep things running. We split up chores, and Sunday mornings, we both brew a strong cup and sit by the window to just talk, no phones, nothing. And when the National Guard calls, it adds another twist—sometimes you just need to find your moments of calm, you know?

Other: Wait, so you’re in the Guard, too? That sounds like double-duty.

Target: (chuckles) You could say that. I trade in one uniform for another on drill weekends. They keep us busy; some days it’s field exercises up north in the woods, next rotation I’m back threading needles in the plant. Keeps me on my toes, for sure.

Other: That’s impressive. How do you keep up with all the required training?

Target: You learn to carve out time—even when it means lugging around boots and fatigues in my trunk for a long week. The sergeant’s strict about punctuality, but being dependable from the factory helps me keep that discipline. Plus, my wife supports me whenever I’m putting in those extra hours, which makes all the difference.

Other: I think a lot of people underestimate how much work that is. Does it ever feel overwhelming to balance both commitments?

Target: Some days, especially if there’s a drill right after a double at the plant. But the Guard’s important to me—it’s a way to give back. When duty calls, my coworkers know to cover my shift if they can. Small towns look out for their own.

Other: It’s great to hear people watch out for each other. Did you always know you’d settle here?

Target: Never really thought about moving. My parents’ place is just a block from Lambeau Field—you can hear the roar on Sundays. The winters are tough, but I never minded the snow. You get good at shoveling, and the cheese curds are always fresh. Plus, all of our people are here.

Other: Ah, you dropped a pretty clear hint there! I know which state has those kind of game days. It must be lively around football season.

Target: Oh, the whole town lights up! Sometimes we’ll drive down to Madison to see her family—plenty of brats and beer to keep everyone happy. She says she couldn’t imagine raising kids anywhere else, and honestly, neither can I.

Other: You really seem rooted in your community. Have you had a chance to travel much, between work and the Guard?

Target: Not as far as I would’ve liked. Work keeps me close to home, but I’ve seen a few other states during annual drills. But every time I’m gone, I miss these little lakes and rolling fields more. My wife’s the same. We like our little patch of green and the sound of the loons at night.

Other: It’s rare these days to find folks so settled and content. With your experience, do you ever consider going for further education or training?

Target: I thought about it a while back, maybe picking up something at the tech college, but with how my schedule runs—split between Guard and the line—it just never fit. Plus, I’m more the hands-on type. Didn’t mind high school, but sitting in lectures never did click for me like running a machine does.

Other: You must have picked up a lot from simply working alongside others for so long.

Target: Absolutely. Some people have bookshelves, I got a drawer full of sewing machine needles and notes from old-timers telling me where the quirks in the old units are. It’s its own kind of schooling.

Other: That’s wisdom you can’t buy. Do you see yourself staying in this role for the long term?

Target: Hard to say—but as long as my fingers hold out and there’s work to do, I’ll be right there. Might try for a lead operator’s spot if the opening comes. That’d mean more teaching, less time hunched over the bench.

Other: Sounds like you’d make a solid team lead. How supportive are the supervisors about promotions from within?

Target: They really like promoting folks who’ve kept at it for a while. The manager even stopped by last month to say she’d noticed my section runs smoothest when I’m there. I don’t have fancy letters after my name, but if you show up every day, people trust you.

Other: Couldn’t agree more. You strike me as steady and committed—have you and your partner talked about what comes next, maybe in five or ten years?

Target: We do, from time to time. Mostly it’s little things—fixing up the house, maybe starting a garden in the backyard, saving up for a proper honeymoon. The furthest we get is dreaming about a camper so we can road-trip together when I get some leave or vacation. She always says she can see us with a little patch of land, watching the world go by slow.

Other: That’s a good plan. You’re both in it together, and that counts for a lot.

Target: No one else I’d rather be on this ride with. When things get rough at work—or if the Guard calls and I’m off for a week—she’s my anchor. We learned early that sharing the load makes things easier.

Other: I respect that. Do you find your community is mostly folks like you—people who grew up, started working early, and built a life here?

Target: Definitely. In my circle, it’s mostly folks who chose work right after tossing their cap. We watched the factory change hands, friends signing enlistment papers together after school, that sort of thing. Small towns, big loyalty.

Other: Speaking of work and loyalty, how have things shifted with the new management? I know some plants have had to tighten belts.

Target: We’ve felt it—but the union sticks together. If someone’s struggling, there’s always a ride offered, or someone’s got baked goods in the breakroom to cheer us up. We had to fight for a few small things, sure, but having folks you trust in your corner makes all the difference.

Other: That team spirit is something to be proud of. Do you see the next generation coming in, or are the younger folks eyeing other opportunities?

Target: There’s a mix. Some of the younger ones try out the big city, but about half end up back home after college. A handful come straight onto the floor, like I did. There’s always something to keep your hands busy—even if it’s not behind a sewing machine.

Other: That’s reassuring to hear. I’m sure your perspective helps guide the newer folks.

Target: I do my best. Someone once showed me how to fix a jammed bobbin without panicking, and now it’s my turn to pass it on. Feels right, keeping that chain going.

Other: If you could go back to your first day, is there one thing you’d tell yourself?

Target: Don’t worry so much about keeping up with everyone else—just focus on learning your machine, and the rest falls into place. Also, pick up some insoles before your feet start hurting.

Other: Sage advice! I appreciate you sharing your story today. It’s refreshing to meet someone who values their home and work so deeply.

Target: I appreciate the time, too. If you’re ever up this way, I’ll point you to the best cheese curds in town. Just don’t expect us to stop talking about the Packers.

Other: I’ll be sure to take you up on that! All the best, and good luck with your shift and the next round of drills.

Target: Thanks—hopefully the machines behave and the Guard keeps us dry this weekend. Give my regards to your team.

Other: Will do. Take care and have a great rest of your week!

Target: You too. Bye now.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_245 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Longa (music)

A longa (pl. longae, or sometimes longe), long, quadruple note (Am.), or quadruple whole note is a musical note that could be either twice or three times as long as a breve (Am.: double whole note, or double note), four or six times as long as a semibreve (Am.: whole note), that appears in early music. The number of breves in a long was determined by the "modus" or "mode" of a passage. Sections in perfect mode used three breves to the long while sections in imperfect mode used two breves to the long. Imperfect longs, worth two breves, existed in perfect mode from the earliest sources (late 12th century), while the fourteenth century saw the introduction of perfect longs, worth three breves, in imperfect mode through the use of dots of addition (puncti additiones).

Prior to the innovations of Franco of Cologne in the mid-thirteenth century, the value of the longa was in common usage in both theoretical and practical sources but appeared primarily in pre-mensural notation ligatures, symbols representing two or more notes joined together. A ligature that began with a longa was said to lack "propriety", while ligatures ending with a longa possessed "perfection", since in the view of that era a "proper and perfect" rhythmic sequence was the succession of a brevis followed by a longa, justified by the fact that the ligature representing this rhythm is written the same way as a plainchant ligature (a different usage of the term from above). As a result, there were four possible ligature types: those beginning with a brevis and ending with a longa, which had both propriety and perfection; the reverse, which had neither; those both beginning and ending with a longa, which lacked propriety but had perfection; and those beginning and ending with a brevis, which were proper but not perfect. Two longae, rarely three, had the combined value of a maxima. The theoretical value of a maximodus perfectus could only be written with three longae or a maxima plus a longa.

Prior to 1450, the longa was typically written with a filled notehead with void (unfilled) and red noteheads used only to indicate an imperfect longa where perfect longae would otherwise be expected. Over the course of the fifteenth century, the void notehead (shown in the image above) became the norm. Unlike other rests used in [mensural notation] which, like the notes, took the same form whether perfect or imperfect, longa rests often had different forms when the rest was imperfect—filling two spaces—or perfect—filling three spaces. Although it is described as late as 1667, by this date the note symbol was of purely theoretical interest, since changes in notational practice had rendered it too extended a value for practical use.. While the longa note has not been used for more than three centuries, the longa rest still appears as a way of writing rests that last exactly four measures.

When the longa note occurs in modern notation (since it is supported by some scorewriters), it is often given the rounded notehead shape of the double whole note, looking like . In this context it is sometimes called a quadruple whole note. In LilyPond, the longa stem appears similarly to that of a half note, instead of always appearing on the right of the notehead as it does in mensural notation: this can be seen below.

See also
 List of musical symbols

References

Further reading
 
 

Latin words and phrases
Note values
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-35 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, Chatbot! My name is Earl Cortese. Thanks for helping me today.

Chatbot: Hi Earl! It's great to meet you. How can I assist you today?

Person: I have a few things on my mind. First off, just a quick intro – I am separated and currently not living with my spouse. Also, I am female. Just wanted to make that clear in case it’s relevant for what we talk about.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing that information, Earl. If there’s anything specific you’d like advice on related to your relationship status or anything else, feel free to let me know!

Person: Also, I’m not actually working right now, though I do have a job. Basically, I am civilian employed, with a job but not at work at the moment. It’s been a bit frustrating, honestly.

Chatbot: That sounds difficult, especially when you’re eager to work. Are you on leave or just between assignments? How are you finding the change in routine?

Person: Yeah, I’m technically on medical leave right now, so I’m at home. I keep busy, but honestly, I miss the social part of being at work – I’ve always been someone who likes chatting with colleagues.

Chatbot: It makes sense that you’d miss the workplace environment. Do you have any hobbies or activities that help you fill that social gap right now?

Person: A little bit. Before I forget, you might want to add to my profile that I was born in Puerto Rico. That often surprises people when they hear my name, Earl Cortese, and expect something else! But yeah, I’m a proud Puerto Rican.

Chatbot: Thank you, Earl. That’s wonderful to know. Puerto Rico has such a rich culture and history. Do you still have family there or visit often?

Person: I do have a few relatives on the island, but the last time I visited was a couple of years ago, just before the pandemic. I always enjoy the food and music – the sense of community there is very different from where I live now.

Chatbot: That’s understandable—the sense of belonging and the vibrancy of the local culture can be very unique. Do you find ways to connect with your heritage where you are now?

Person: Sometimes! I’ve met a few other Puerto Ricans in the area, mainly through community events. There aren't a ton where I’m based, but we try to keep the traditions alive, especially around holidays.

Chatbot: That’s great to hear. Keeping those traditions strong can be very comforting, especially when adjusting to changes in your personal and work life.

Person: Speaking of life changes, I sometimes wonder if I should’ve finished my degree. Just for the record, I have 1 or more years of college credit but no degree. I had to stop for financial reasons, but I’m thinking about going back, especially now that I have a bit more time due to my work situation.

Chatbot: It’s wonderful that you’re considering returning to your studies. Many people take nontraditional paths, and every bit of college credit is an accomplishment. Is there a particular area of study you’re interested in revisiting?

Person: I was originally in psychology. I loved learning about how people think and communicate. Even now, I use some of those skills in my job. Maybe I’ll pick up where I left off or try something new altogether!

Chatbot: Both sound like great options! Psychology can be so beneficial in many aspects of life and different careers. Have you looked into online programs or local colleges that offer flexible schedules, considering your current employment status?

Person: I have, actually. There’s a local community college that offers evening classes, which could work when I go back to the office. Since I am civilian employed, with a job but not at work, I have some time to figure it out and maybe start online before transitioning back in person.

Chatbot: That sounds like a solid plan. Balancing work, even if currently not at the workplace, with further education is challenging but very rewarding. What’s motivating you most to finish your degree now?

Person: I think it’s a combination of wanting to prove to myself that I can do it, and also to open up new opportunities. Since I am separated and living on my own now, I have more flexibility to focus on personal goals.

Chatbot: That’s a powerful motivator. Taking steps to further your education is always worthwhile, especially when you’re driven by personal growth. Have you thought about what support systems you might need as you start this journey?

Person: Good question. I have a few close friends who encourage me, and my family back in Puerto Rico is always supportive. I also feel more at ease since, as I mentioned, I am female, and some support groups or resources are more aimed towards women students returning to college.

Chatbot: It’s excellent that you have a support network in place, both locally and back home. Connecting with groups specifically designed for women returning to education can provide tailored encouragement and resources. Are there any challenges you anticipate?

Person: Mostly time management, especially once I return to the office. But since I am civilian employed, with a job but not at work, I think I can build some good habits now. Plus, with my marital status being separated, my schedule is more under my control than it used to be.

Chatbot: Practicing time management now is a smart strategy. If you want, I could suggest some apps or tools that might help keep you organized with your studies and work responsibilities.

Person: That would be great. Also, just to sum up: my name is Earl Cortese, I was born in Puerto Rico, I am female, I am separated, I have 1 or more years of college credit with no degree, and I’m currently civilian employed, with a job but not at work. If you could tailor your suggestions with those things in mind, that would be helpful!

Chatbot: Absolutely, Earl. Based on your background and goals, I recommend looking into apps like Trello or Google Calendar for time management. You might also check out forums like College Women Returners or organizations that support separated individuals. And don't forget to connect with alumni communities in Puerto Rico or psychology student groups for additional networking.

Person: That’s really helpful, thank you! I appreciate you taking the time to get to know me, and I definitely feel more prepared to move forward.

Chatbot: It’s been a pleasure assisting you, Earl. Remember, you’re already accomplishing a lot by planning your next steps. If you ever need more resources, advice, or just someone to talk things over with, I’m always here.

Person: Thank you, Chatbot. I’ll definitely reach out again as I make progress. Have a great day!

Chatbot: You’re welcome, Earl! Best of luck with your studies, your career, and everything ahead. Have a wonderful day!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-48 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doc. I’m glad you could squeeze me in today—I know your schedule’s always tight at this clinic. I just wanted to check in about this nagging shoulder pain I’ve had for a while, and maybe talk a little about my sleep, if that’s alright.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all, I’m glad you came in. Let’s get started. Can you tell me a bit more about your shoulder? Is this the left or the right, and when did it begin bothering you?

Patient: Yeah, it’s my right shoulder. It’s been on and off for maybe three or four months now, but recently it feels like it gets all tight after a day at the office. And then playing badminton with my cousins last weekend didn’t help—I feel like I overstretched something. I was hoping it would just go away, but here we are.

Doctor: I see. Desk work can definitely make shoulder issues worse, especially if you’re typing or sitting for long hours. Has it affected your ability to do daily activities or sleep?

Patient: It makes it harder to do certain things—like reaching up to the top cupboard, or putting on a jacket. As for sleep, well, that’s part of what I wanted to talk about. The shoulder wakes me up sometimes if I roll over, but even aside from that, my sleep has just been off. I’ve been staying up way too late watching shows or talking to friends back home—time zone difference doesn’t help, you know?

Doctor: That sounds frustrating. When you say friends back home, where are they located?

Patient: Most of them are in Jakarta. So by the time I’m finishing up here, they’re just getting into their day, and it’s easy to stay on group calls with the guys. Family too—my parents still speak Indonesian at home, so it’s a good way to stay connected.

Doctor: That makes sense. Maintaining connections is important, even when it interferes a little with your sleep. Out of curiosity, do you use your phone or computer right before bed to chat with them?

Patient: Oh, for sure—either my phone or my laptop, sometimes both. That blue light, right? I read somewhere that it can keep you wired, but it’s hard to put it down when everyone’s updating me on what’s happening over there, and my extended family throws these photo updates in the group chat. With my work in tech, I’m already in front of screens all day anyway.

Doctor: Absolutely. Blue light exposure before bed can definitely disrupt your sleep signals. We can talk about ways to improve your evening routine. I want to circle back to the shoulder, too—any other symptoms like numbness, tingling, or weakness in your arm or hands?

Patient: Not really. Maybe it feels a little stiff, but it’s not like my arm gives out or anything. Sometimes I get worried it’s something worse, though. I remember learning about rotator cuff stuff back when I was in college. One of my housemates hurt his shoulder playing ultimate and needed months of physical therapy.

Doctor: That’s a good point; knowledge about these injuries can help people seek care sooner. You mentioned working in tech—are you working from home mostly, or are you back in an office setting?

Patient: We’re hybrid now. So I come in to the Seattle office a couple days a week, otherwise I’m remote at home. The commute isn’t bad—public transit improved a lot since I moved here, so it’s pretty easy. But, man, even the home setup, it’s still a lot of sitting.

Doctor: It sounds like you’re spending lots of time at a desk either way. Do you get up to stretch or take breaks often?

Patient: I try to set reminders—sometimes they actually work. My old roommate used to nag me about “ergonomics.” And I keep meaning to find a good physical therapist, but, you know, life gets busy. Plus, I coach my nephew’s soccer team on Saturdays at Jefferson Park, so there goes half my weekend.

Doctor: Coaching is a great way to stay active, but that can also strain your shoulders if you’re demonstrating moves or carrying equipment. Let’s talk about your pain management so far. What helps, and have you taken anything for it?

Patient: Just Tylenol or Advil here and there, usually after a long day or if I know I’ll be running around. Ice packs, too. My aunt told me to try turmeric tea, so I’ve had that a couple times—my grandma swore by it, back when she was back in Surabaya. Not much else, though.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. And I appreciate hearing those family remedies—sometimes they really do help. Besides the pain, how’s your overall health been? Any other changes you’ve noticed, like weight loss, fevers, or changes in appetite?

Patient: Not really. My appetite’s about the same, and my weight only goes up a little bit whenever my mom visits with all the tempeh and beef rendang. I do try to watch what I eat. I pack my lunches for the office—rice, maybe some salmon, veggies, that sort of thing. The food scene here is great, though. Sometimes I miss the little warungs near my extended family’s house, but you make do.

Doctor: Sounds delicious! I can tell food is a big part of your family culture. Now, about sleep—you mentioned staying up late. How many hours would you say you’re getting, on average?

Patient: Probably five or six most nights. Sometimes I take a Saturday and just sleep in—a perk of living on my own these days, I guess. But the work grind catches up. I had a professor who always joked that programmers just “hibernate on weekends” and that feels real these days.

Doctor: Getting less than seven hours regularly could definitely contribute to fatigue and even increase sensitivity to pain. I’d like to work with you to gradually improve your sleep hygiene if you’re open to it. Would you be willing to try adjusting your electronics use, or implementing any kind of wind-down routine?

Patient: I could try. Hard to cut off family calls, but maybe I can set a “lights out” for myself, or at least put the phone down an hour before bed. My mom would probably chide me for staying up, too.

Doctor: That sounds like a plan. Perhaps you can be the one to start the conversation earlier in their day, even if it means a quick good morning for them and good night for you. Before we move on, I want to ask about your background because sometimes patterns of shoulder injuries and sleep disorders run in families. Do you know of anyone else in your family with these issues?

Patient: Not really, no. Most everyone’s healthy—my dad’s the only one who had shoulder trouble, but that was from working on fishing boats when he was young, so a whole different story. Whenever I call home, my parents are always running around. My aunt, too—she’s in St. Thomas now, but she’s still pretty active.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Physical activity tends to keep families healthy across generations. You mentioned you’re from Jakarta—is that where you grew up?

Patient: Well, I was actually born in what some folks would call a U.S. territory—the kind that lets you have a star on the U.S. flag, but most folks here just hear “the Islands” and get curious. We moved to Indonesia when I was young to be closer to family, then circled back here for college.

Doctor: That’s an interesting upbringing. Sounds like you’ve experienced a lot of different cultures and places.

Patient: Yeah, it’s a mix. Sometimes I have to explain to people how I can speak both Bahasa and English fluently, or how my passport works—used to be confusing when traveling for soccer tournaments in the States. But I got the hang of it.

Doctor: That’s great. Having such a multi-layered background can help with empathy, especially in leadership roles. Speaking of college, where did you end up going?

Patient: I did my undergrad up at the University of Washington. Double majored, actually—computer science and some business courses. Loved it, especially the CS department. Kind of miss those late nights in the libraries, honestly, though not the finals stress.

Doctor: That’s impressive—double majoring is no small feat. Has your education helped in managing your work-life balance, or do you find yourself working long hours anyway?

Patient: It gave me good habits, but sometimes the tech industry forgets what “work-life balance” means. Still, the degree helped me get my foot in the door, especially as someone who came in not knowing anyone in the Seattle scene. All those group projects with classmates from different backgrounds paid off, I’d say.

Doctor: It’s good to hear that your education continues to benefit you. Do you have any concerns about how your work might impact your long-term health, especially with regard to stress or posture?

Patient: I do worry sometimes. Sitting in meetings, debugging late into the night, forgetting to stretch—my dad would say that wasn’t how he pictured me working when he sent me off for school. But I try to keep active, like running around at soccer practice or hiking out near Mount Rainier when I get the chance. The Pacific Northwest makes it easy if you plan right.

Doctor: Getting outside here is certainly one of the perks of living in this region. Fresh air and green spaces can help both mentally and physically. On that note, any issues with your mood or stress levels lately?

Patient: A little. Nothing major, but sometimes the grey weather gets to me. I miss the sun back home, or even the rainy season where you get the sudden downpours and then the city feels fresh. Here, it’s just—grey, grey, grey. Makes me want strong coffee and fried bananas, you know?

Doctor: That’s understandable. The longer, darker winters here can definitely affect mood—seasonal affective disorder isn’t uncommon. Have you ever tried using a light therapy box, or does getting outside during daylight hours seem to help?

Patient: I haven’t tried light therapy, but I do make a point of walking out during my lunch break, rain or shine. If not, I’ll just video call my cousins and watch the kids play in the sun—sort of vicarious sunshine, I guess.

Doctor: Those are good habits to maintain. We can talk about trying light therapy if you feel you need more support. Before we wrap up, is there anything else on your mind? Any concerns about medications, allergies, or family history that we haven’t covered?

Patient: No allergies or meds at the moment, just the occasional ibuprofen like I said. I guess I do worry sometimes about the future—like, will I be able to stay in tech as things evolve, or will I burn out? But I figure with my degree and experience, I’ve got a good shot. My dad always used to say, “You have an American education—make something of it.”

Doctor: Wise words. It sounds like you’ve got a strong foundation between your family’s support, your education, and the community you’re building here. As for the shoulder pain, I’d like to refer you to physical therapy and recommend regular stretching, ice for flare-ups, and a gradual strengthening program. For your sleep, let’s try those changes to your device use at night, and maybe consider a wind-down routine tailored to your family connections.

Patient: That sounds fair. I’ll give it a shot. And maybe see if the physical therapist can give me some tips for coaching soccer, so I don’t twist anything worse.

Doctor: Excellent idea. I’ll print those referrals for you. If there’s anything else, never hesitate to call—especially if you notice any new symptoms or have concerns you’d like to discuss.

Patient: Will do, Doc. Thanks for listening, and for not giving me too hard of a time about my late nights. It’s tricky when half your friends are halfway across the world and your family traditions still mean so much. My cousins even sent me a box of traditional snacks last week—they know I miss the taste of home.

Doctor: It’s always a pleasure to see you, and I appreciate that you share the richness of your background. Stay in touch with your loved ones, but remember to take care of yourself here, too.

Patient: I will. Thanks again. I’ll schedule that follow-up with the front desk and keep you posted about the PT.

Doctor: Sounds good. Take care of that shoulder, and let’s aim for a little more sleep before our next check-in.

Patient: I’ll do my best. Have a great day!

Doctor: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_75 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Pronunciation respelling for English

A pronunciation respelling for English is a notation used to convey the pronunciation of words in the English language, which do not have a phonemic orthography (i.e. the spelling does not reliably indicate pronunciation).

There are two basic types of pronunciation respelling:
 "Phonemic" systems, as commonly found in American dictionaries, consistently use one symbol per English phoneme.  These systems are conceptually equivalent to the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) commonly used in bilingual dictionaries and scholarly writings but tend to use symbols based on English rather than Romance-language spelling conventions (e.g. ē for IPA ) and avoid non-alphabetic symbols (e.g. sh for IPA ).
 On the other hand, "non-phonemic" or "newspaper" systems, commonly used in newspapers and other non-technical writings, avoid diacritics and literally "respell" words making use of well-known English words and spelling conventions, even though the resulting system may not have a one-to-one mapping between symbols and sounds.

As an example, one pronunciation of Arkansas, transcribed  in the IPA, could be respelled är′kən-sô′ or  in a phonemic system and ar-kuhn-saw in a non-phonemic system.

Development and use
Pronunciation respelling systems for English have been developed primarily for use in dictionaries. They are used there because it is not possible to predict with certainty the sound of a written English word from its spelling or the spelling of a spoken English word from its sound. So readers looking up an unfamiliar word in a dictionary may find, on seeing the pronunciation respelling, that the word is in fact already known to them orally. By the same token, those who hear an unfamiliar spoken word may see several possible matches in a dictionary and must rely on the pronunciation respellings to find the correct match.

Traditional respelling systems for English use only the 26 ordinary letters of the Latin alphabet with diacritics, and are meant to be easy for native readers to understand. English dictionaries have used various such respelling systems to convey phonemic representations of the spoken word since Samuel Johnson published his Dictionary of the English Language in 1755, the earliest being devised by James Buchanan us be featured in his 1757 dictionary Linguæ Britannicæ Vera Pronunciatio, although most words therein were not respelled but given diacritics; since the language described by Buchanan was that of Scotland, William Kenrick responded in 1773 with A New Dictionary of the English Language, wherein the pronunciation of Southern England was covered and numbers rather than diacritics used to represent vowel sounds; Thomas Sheridan devised a simpler scheme, which he employed in his successful 1780 General Dictionary of the English Language, a much larger work consisting of two volumes; in 1791 John Walker produced A Critical Pronouncing Dictionary, which achieved a great reputation and ran into some forty editions. Today, such systems remain in use in American dictionaries for native English speakers, but they have been replaced by the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) in linguistics references and many bilingual dictionaries published outside the United States.

The pronunciation which dictionaries refer to is some chosen "normal" one, thereby excluding other regional accents or dialect pronunciation. In England this standard is normally the Received Pronunciation, based upon the educated speech of southern England. The standard for American English is known as General American (GA).

Sophisticated phonetic systems have been developed, such as James Murray's scheme for the original Oxford English Dictionary, and the IPA, which replaced it in later editions and has been adopted by many British and international dictionaries. The IPA system is not a respelling system, because it uses symbols not in the English alphabet, such as ð and θ. Most current British dictionaries use IPA for this...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-43 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. My name is William Cahoon and I have an appointment for a consultation today.

Doctor: Good morning, Mr. Cahoon. How are you doing today?

Patient: I’m doing alright, thank you. Just here for a routine check-up. My wife reminded me that it’s time for my annual physical. I am married, by the way.

Doctor: That’s great, it’s always good to keep up with regular check-ups. Can you please confirm your date of birth for me?

Patient: Sure, my date of birth is 29 June 1971.

Doctor: Thank you, William. And can you remind me of your occupation?

Patient: I work in healthcare, actually. Specifically, I’m a registered nurse. So I’m pretty familiar with the medical side of things.

Doctor: That’s always helpful. And just to confirm for our records, what is your race?

Patient: I am Filipino.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. Also, are you still residing at the same address in Illinois?

Patient: Yes, I live in Illinois, and nothing has changed with my residence.

Doctor: Excellent. So what brings you in for your annual check-up—any new symptoms or concerns?

Patient: Nothing major, really. Just the usual aches and pains. I’m approaching my mid-fifties now, so I wanted to make sure everything is in order, bloodwork-wise and all that.

Doctor: That’s a good plan. You mentioned some aches and pains; can you tell me more about those?

Patient: Sure. Mostly lower back pain, especially after long shifts at work. Being a registered nurse, I’m on my feet a lot and helping move patients can be tough on the body, even when you use good technique.

Doctor: Understandable, nursing can be very physically demanding. Does the pain radiate anywhere or is it localized?

Patient: It usually stays in my lower back. Sometimes it feels a bit stiff in the mornings, but it loosens up throughout the day.

Doctor: Any tingling, numbness, or weakness in your legs?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Just stiffness and some soreness. I try to stretch and do some light exercise, but the pain persists, especially after longer shifts.

Doctor: That’s good that you’re staying active. I know working as a registered nurse means you have a lot on your plate, but do you ever get a chance to rest between shifts?

Patient: It can be tough, but I make sure to rest when I can. My wife is also really supportive and encourages me to slow down a bit at home.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Marital support is important, especially when you have a demanding job.

Patient: Absolutely. She keeps me in line—encourages me to go for walks and eat healthier, too.

Doctor: Do you have any chronic medical conditions we should be monitoring or any regular medications you’re taking?

Patient: I’m not on any medications regularly. I have a family history of hypertension and diabetes, so I try to keep an eye on my blood pressure and glucose. No diagnoses for me so far, though.

Doctor: Very proactive, that’s good. Has your weight, appetite or energy changed at all in the last year?

Patient: My weight has held steady. Appetite is pretty normal. Some days I feel more tired, but nothing that seems abnormal for a nurse working 12-hour shifts in Illinois.

Doctor: Understandable. Night shifts or day shifts?

Patient: Mostly day shifts lately. I switched over a bit ago after discussing it with my wife. Night shifts were starting to wear me down.

Doctor: Makes sense, those can be grueling. I just want to ask: Have you experienced any mood changes, depression, or anxiety symptoms, especially with the stresses from nursing?

Patient: I’d be lying if I said I never felt stressed, but nothing out of the ordinary. Being Filipino, family and community are very important to me. I talk to my wife and kids, and we support each other a lot. That helps me keep things in perspective.

Doctor: That’s wonderful to hear. Social support is so important for mental health. Do you smoke or drink alcohol?

Patient: I don’t smoke. I’ll have an occasional drink with family on special occasions, but nothing regular.

Doctor: Excellent. And your last set of labs and vital signs looked good on your chart, but we’ll repeat everything today—cholesterol, glucose, kidney function, liver panel. Any concerns about your heart?

Patient: No chest pain or shortness of breath. I try to stay active and watch my cholesterol, especially since I turned 50 a couple years ago.

Doctor: That’s great. And as a registered nurse, I’m sure you know the importance of screening procedures. Are you up to date with your colonoscopy and other age-appropriate screenings?

Patient: Yes, I had my colonoscopy last year. Everything came back normal. My wife made sure I scheduled it right after my 50th birthday, which was June 29, 1971—so a couple of years back now.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you for confirming. Any concerns about vision, hearing, or dental health?

Patient: My vision is mostly fine, maybe slightly more blurry at night, but nothing severe. Hearing is good, and I go for routine dental check-ups here in Illinois.

Doctor: Glad to hear. Any other issues you’d like to discuss today?

Patient: Nothing else comes to mind. If everything with my labs comes back normal, I’ll be happy. I just want to stay healthy for my wife and family.

Doctor: That’s an excellent attitude, William. I’ll put in orders for your labs and review everything once the results come in. If anything pops up, we’ll reach out to you. In the meantime, keep doing what you’re doing—staying active and connected.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate your help.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. Take care of yourself in Illinois, and let me know if you have any concerns before your next visit.

Patient: Will do. Have a great day.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-40 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I’ve never used a chatbot before, but I thought I’d give it a try today. My name is Maria, and to get started, let me tell you a little about myself. I am female, I live in Hawaii, specifically Honolulu. My current address is Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816. I have to admit, I haven’t done any schooling at all—no schooling completed—so sometimes technology is a little intimidating for me.

Chatbot: Welcome, Maria! I'm glad you decided to try chatting with me today. Thank you for introducing yourself and sharing those details. Don't worry about your educational background—I'm here to make technology friendly and accessible, no matter your experience level. How can I be of help today?

Person: Thanks for being understanding. Sometimes I worry that because I have no schooling completed, people will judge me or the technology will go over my head. But I love learning new things, even just talking about daily life. Oh, and my race is other Micronesian or in combination with other, if that matters for some reason. I was born in Guam, so my citizenship status is born in Puerto Rico, Guam, the US Virgin Islands, or the Northern Marianas.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing, Maria. Everyone’s background is valuable, and having no formal education doesn’t limit your curiosity or your ability to enjoy technology. Being born in Guam means you have a unique perspective, and if you identify your race as other Micronesian or in combination with other, that adds to your individuality! If you ever want to share any stories about growing up in Guam or living in Hawaii, I’d be happy to listen. How’s life treating you at Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816?

Person: That’s thoughtful of you! Living at Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816 is beautiful, honestly. I can see the ocean every day. Sometimes guests come up and ask for directions, thinking I work here, and I have to laugh. Being in Hawaii, I get to enjoy a tropical climate, but I still miss things from Guam sometimes.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful! I can imagine waking up to that ocean view every morning must be refreshing. While Hawaii and Guam both have lovely beaches, I bet there are small differences you notice. If you ever want to talk about what you miss from Guam or share a story from your heritage, I’d love to hear it. Also, I’m happy to guide you through technology questions step by step. What would you like to chat about today?

Person: I was wondering if you could help me look up local events in Honolulu. Even though I have no schooling completed, I find attending local events helps me socialize. Sometimes people are surprised when I say I have no schooling completed, but I pick things up fast when someone explains them to me. Any suggestions for events a woman like me can enjoy, especially around other Micronesian or Pacific Islander communities?

Chatbot: Absolutely, Maria! There are lots of events in Honolulu celebrating Micronesian and Pacific Islander culture. Being female and from an other Micronesian background, you might enjoy cultural festivals, craft fairs, or local music nights, where you’ll find others from your community. I’ll look up upcoming events and, if you’d like, I can even explain how to register or get tickets. Would you like to try looking for specific types of events at or near Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816?

Person: Yes, that sounds perfect! Because I live at Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816, I’d prefer things nearby—walking or a short bus ride. Also, sometimes events use unfamiliar words. Since I’m a woman with no schooling completed, can you help me with the meaning of words if I get confused?

Chatbot: Of course! I can find events close to your address and help explain any terms that are unfamiliar. Many event websites use words like “RSVP,” “admission,” or “performance,” so feel free to ask about any you don’t know. Do you want cultural activities, live music, food festivals, or something else?

Person: Food festivals are my favorite! In Guam, the food is spicy and flavorful. Here in Hawaii, sometimes I find Chamorro food stalls, but it’s not the same. I’d love to meet other people—especially Micronesian women like me—who miss dishes from home. Could you help me search for any food festivals happening this month?

Chatbot: Certainly! I’ll look for food festivals in Honolulu, focusing on those with Micronesian, Pacific Islander, or multicultural themes near your home, Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816. If you need recipes or want to share your favorite dish from Guam, just let me know. Would you like a list of dates and locations, or to talk about your favorite foods first?

Person: A list would be great! I can use my phone to call and ask about events, even though sometimes I need help understanding things because I have no schooling completed. Being born in Guam, I really appreciate having new ways to connect with people who share my culture. Is it okay to ask for help reading menus or websites, too?

Chatbot: Absolutely, Maria! I’m always here if you need help reading menus, understanding event details, or even just explaining tricky words. Everyone learns at their own pace—having no formal education doesn’t stop you from participating in your community. Do you want me to summarize how to register for festivals, what to expect when you arrive, or recommend starter conversations to meet others of Micronesian heritage?

Person: Yes, all of that sounds great. I love the idea of practicing conversation starters, too. Sometimes being a woman with no schooling completed can make meeting new people a little tricky for me. What’s a friendly way to introduce myself, mentioning I was born in Guam and am living in Honolulu now?

Chatbot: Here’s a simple introduction you can use at food festivals or community events: “Hi, my name is Maria. I was born in Guam and now I live in Honolulu. I’m excited to meet more people from the Micronesian community here.” That’s clear, friendly, and lets others know your background. If you ever feel nervous, remember that sharing where you’re from makes it easier to connect. And don’t hesitate to mention your race as other Micronesian or in combination with other if it comes up—you’ll likely find welcoming responses.

Person: That’s really helpful. Thank you for not making me feel embarrassed about not finishing school or about anything else. My address at Kahala Resort, 5000 Kahala Ave #5000, Honolulu, HI 96816 keeps life interesting. I’ll try introducing myself like that at the next festival. Thanks for helping me feel welcome!

Chatbot: You’re welcome, Maria! I’m glad I can support you. Your experiences and your story are important. If you ever want help with directions from Kahala Resort, understanding forms, or just someone to practice conversation with, I’ll be here. I hope you have a wonderful time at your next event!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-90 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today—sorry again for running a little late. Traffic on 40 was a nightmare all the way past the zoo. Anyway, how are you?

Doctor: Good morning! No worries at all, it happens. I'm doing well, thank you. What brings you in today?

Patient: Honestly, I wanted to have a bit of a check-in. Between work and everything else, I’ve been running myself ragged, I think. Plus, there’s been some weird chest tightness lately. Not pain exactly, but enough to notice.

Doctor: All right, it's good that you came in. Tell me more about this chest tightness. When did you first notice it, and what were you doing at the time?

Patient: The first time, it was a couple weeks back. I was at my desk, going over a client’s loan options—so, nothing physically strenuous, unless you count sorting through piles of financial statements. I just felt this light pressure in my chest, kind of like someone was sitting on it. Since then, it’s happened a few times, usually when I’m sitting at the office.

Doctor: Does it get worse with exertion or when you're stressed? Or is it random?

Patient: It’s weird because it’s not always linked to stress. Yes, it happens when clients are upset or loans don’t go through, but sometimes it’s just during a normal day. I guess I do spend a lot of time glued to my chair, with phones ringing and numbers everywhere. Maybe it’s anxiety or something from just being in finance for so long.

Doctor: Any shortness of breath, dizziness, or palpitations that go along with it?

Patient: Sometimes I get a little light-headed, but it’s usually after I’ve been at my desk for hours and realize I haven’t moved much. I haven’t noticed my heart racing or anything—just that odd tightness, and it kind of makes me catch my breath.

Doctor: Have you experienced any swelling in your legs, changes in your weight, or issues sleeping?

Patient: No leg swelling and my weight’s been steady. Sleeping’s been the same as always. I do tend to be up late, especially during quarterly reviews or if the interest rates get announced. There's always a client panicking about their mortgage. So, lots of client calls in the evenings, but I manage with coffee.

Doctor: I see. How has your energy level been overall?

Patient: I’d say I’m a little more tired than I used to be, but I don’t think it’s anything out of the ordinary for someone who’s been at it as long as I have. You know, sometimes I joke, “I’ve been doing this since calculators had big, clunky buttons.” Twenty-plus years of going over loan offers, running credit counseling clinics, always answering the same questions—it's rewarding, but mentally exhausting. Plus, I noticed that the younger folks in my office don’t really appreciate 90s music references.

Doctor: That does sound demanding. Just to be thorough, any history of heart disease in your family?

Patient: My mom’s side has a couple folks with high blood pressure, but no major cardiac events that I know of. My dad spent his whole life traveling, so I never really had full medical histories for his side—he always used to joke that my upbringing was more “international than most,” but he still took me to Cardinals games when we were in town.

Doctor: Important to ask—any tobacco, alcohol, or drug use?

Patient: I’ve never smoked, and I’m just a social wine drinker. If there’s a birthday party at work or the department has a get-together—like the one for my “last year before the big 5-0”—then I might have a glass. Otherwise, not really. Mortgage reviews don’t exactly pair well with a hangover.

Doctor: Any significant stress lately outside of work? Anything at home that’s worrying you?

Patient: It’s mostly job pressure, which I guess is to be expected. We're helping more people manage debt and foreclosures these days. Spring is our busiest season—everyone’s panic-calling to see if they can close on houses before Memorial Day, that sort of thing. Nothing especially big at home. My daughter recently sent me lilies for Mother’s Day, so that was a bright point.

Doctor: That's lovely. Remind me—any regular exercise routines?

Patient: I tell myself I should do more, but mostly it’s just walking around the River Market on weekends. If I’m feeling ambitious, I’ll head out to Forest Park with some friends, but between work and obligations, my treadmill has turned into a coat rack.

Doctor: I can understand how difficult making time for exercise can be.

Patient: Especially now—I still remember when I could stay up all night finishing reports and bounce back the next day, but these days if I don’t get my seven hours, no amount of coffee gets me through a client call. It’s funny, I was chatting with a friend over lunch last week, and we both realized this is the year we hit the same milestone as when “Jaws” first opened, with Spielberg. Weird sense of perspective.

Doctor: That certainly gives things context. When was your last physical?

Patient: I had a full workup a couple years ago, June of ’24, I think. Cholesterol was a little high, but nothing my old doctor was too worried about. I had a full blood panel done back then. Pap was normal, by the way—the joys of being at the age where those become annual reminders.

Doctor: Good to hear. When was your last mammogram?

Patient: That would be last fall, in November. I try to stay on top of things—after all, I help clients plan for the unexpected, so it’s only fair that I do the same for myself! My mother hounded me about it when I turned forty, and now I’ve got it on repeat in my calendar.

Doctor: Excellent. Any other longstanding health concerns?

Patient: I used to get migraines after international flights as a teenager. Not so much anymore, though. Actually, my daughter is going through the college application process, and the paperwork is wild—almost a throwback to when my own parents navigated the whole process in another country. I think helping her has been more stressful than any underwriting review.

Doctor: Any allergies to medications?

Patient: None that I know of. Penicillin and sulfa drugs have never been an issue; I joke that I’m as generic as they come.

Doctor: What medications are you currently taking?

Patient: Just a daily antihistamine this time of year. And a multivitamin because I swear, after a certain age, every piece of advice starts with “take your vitamins.” No prescription meds at the moment.

Doctor: Let’s do a quick recap. Chest tightness, mainly sedentary at work, more tired lately but otherwise healthy. Family history is fairly clear. To rule things out, I’d like to check your blood pressure and possibly order an EKG, given your symptoms. Sound good?

Patient: Sure, that sounds reasonable. I’d rather be safe—my clients come to me for peace of mind, so I guess it’s time I do the same for myself.

Doctor: Do you recall any specific triggers—certain foods, activities, or emotions that seem to set off the chest tightness?

Patient: It’s usually late afternoons, especially after back-to-back meetings or marathon sessions explaining APR to nervous first-time buyers. I’m already prepping for the summer rush, which starts around the anniversary of the tornado hitting Joplin, so the stress is always a little higher this time of year.

Doctor: That’s understandable. How long do these episodes typically last?

Patient: Maybe five to ten minutes. They tend to fade if I stand up and walk to the break room or get a breath of fresh air. My office has this big window over Main Street, so sometimes just watching the traffic helps.

Doctor: Are you ever awakened by the tightness at night, or is it only during waking hours?

Patient: Only during the day, never at night.

Doctor: Any stomach issues or heartburn?

Patient: A touch of heartburn when I indulge in too much barbecue—can’t live in St. Louis and not love ribs, right? But nothing persistent.

Doctor: Makes sense! Let’s discuss family history a bit more. Any conditions in the extended family, such as diabetes or cancer?

Patient: My aunt had breast cancer in her sixties, but she’s five states away, so I only know what my mom tells me. No diabetes that I know of.

Doctor: All right. Out of curiosity, did you grow up in Missouri, or did you move here at some point?

Patient: Oh, that's a question. I’m basically “from here” by choice. My parents took me all over the place when I was little—my mom’s Chicago roots, my dad’s career, which bounced our family between continents, embassies, and some pretty unusual neighborhoods. Missouri became home when I came here for college; I’ve been here longer than anywhere else. I joke that I have city loyalty, even if my birth certificate isn’t from the Show-Me State.

Doctor: That’s fascinating. Having a global childhood must have given you a unique perspective.

Patient: It did. And it made tax season wild, let me tell you. My parents would always pull out all those IRS forms for dual income, and the mess with picking which country counted me when. But it made learning to work with numbers come naturally, which helps in my line of work.

Doctor: I can see how that skillset would be useful in financial counseling and lending.

Patient: It’s second nature now. Closing on loans, helping folks sort out their debts, answering frantic calls when someone’s credit score gets dinged—never a dull moment.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing all of this. You mentioned turning a milestone age recently—do you mind if I ask how old you are? Just for the chart.

Patient: I’m fifty now—hit the big number last spring. Friends teased me because the day lined up with the Preakness Stakes last year. My daughter even baked a “golden years” cake, despite my protests.

Doctor: Happy belated! And your birthday was around the Preakness? That’s mid-to-late May if I’m not mistaken.

Patient: Yep, always just ahead of Memorial Day, round about when school lets out and the peonies blossom. I’ve never had to work on my actual birthday—one of the perks of springtime celebrations.

Doctor: That’s lovely. Thank you for clarifying. Has menopause started for you?

Patient: Yes, it’s been a couple years now. Hot flashes, especially during those summer closings with no air conditioning—but nothing too dramatic.

Doctor: Understood. Do you require any assistance managing symptoms or do you feel like you’re coping well?

Patient: Coping, so far. I read all the pamphlets, took my mom’s advice, and drink plenty of ice water. If it gets worse, I’ll let you know. For now, my bigger concern is making sure I don’t let work stress get the best of me.

Doctor: Absolutely. Let's try to manage your stress and monitor the chest tightness. I'm going to order a basic metabolic profile and EKG. If both are normal, I’d recommend regular activity—nothing intense, but consistent. And maybe taking some time to step outside during the day.

Patient: I can do that. I don’t want to join the statistics for financial professionals with burnout! Maybe I’ll even get a treadmill desk, if I can convince my boss.

Doctor: In the meantime, keep an eye on your symptoms. If you notice any worsening chest pain, shortness of breath, or if you ever faint, please contact me or seek urgent care right away.

Patient: Will do. Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate your thoroughness.

Doctor: It was my pleasure. We’ll get those tests done, and I’ll follow up with the results. In the meantime, do your best to fit in a little “me time” around all those client appointments.

Patient: I’ll certainly try. I tell my clients to be proactive about their finances—it’s probably time I start taking that advice for my health as well.

Doctor: That’s the spirit. Take care, and we’ll be in touch soon.

Patient: Thanks again. Have a good rest of your week!

Doctor: You too. Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-23 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, can you help me figure out some cost estimates for redoing a client's flooring? They're looking to swap out their old carpet for tile in a couple rooms, and I want to give them a good ballpark figure before we start.

Chatbot: Sure! I’d be glad to help. Could you let me know the approximate square footage of the rooms, and what kind of tile they want? Also, is there any demo or prep work involved—like removing the current carpet and baseboards?

Person: Yeah, both rooms together add up to about 700 sq ft. Got to yank out the old plush carpet first, tack strips and all. The customer’s thinking standard ceramic—nothing too fancy or big, around 12x12", light gray, easy to find here in nm. No major leveling needed except a small corner with a dip.

Chatbot: That definitely helps. So, for the labor on demo and install, your rate as a tile guy in the construction field will factor in. Do you need to include underlayment or just thin-set and grout?

Person: We’ll throw in hardiebacker because slab’s got a few cracks, so I’d rather spend an extra hour than deal with pop-ups. As for the rate, I usually look at what others in my line—folks working with floor coverings—charge. I got my diploma from high school back in the day, but all the hands-on training after is what really taught me.

Chatbot: Practical experience goes a long way! Since you’re doing both demo and tile install as a pro floor and tile worker, you could consider $4-5 per sq ft for demo and $6-9 for install, plus materials. Does that line up with rates in your area?

Person: More or less. Here in NM, folks sometimes want things as cheap as possible, but I don’t want to short myself. Also, gotta keep in mind my time on site and travel—I'm in northern nm so not a huge city. I’m a Pueblo descent, so I like to do jobs for other Native families when I get the chance, but got bills to pay too.

Chatbot: Understood. Factoring in the hardiebacker, thin-set, grout, and the tile, have you checked local suppliers for bulk discounts? Sometimes they’ll cut deals for regular contractors, especially if you’re bringing in repeat biz.

Person: Oh, for sure. There’s a warehouse down off Cerrillos that gives a break if I show my contractor’s card. Not huge, but a few percent here and there adds up. By the way, I tell everyone, my name’s spelled b-e-r-t-r-a-n-d, space, l-a-g-o, just in case they need it for their books or a contract.

Chatbot: Thanks, Bertrand Lago—got it! Are there any special requests from your client, like accent tiles, extra floor protection, or waterproofing?

Person: Nah, not this time. Just straight lay, 1/16" grout lines, nothing diagonal or fancy. Oh, but they do want transitions into the hallway carpet, which means some metal strips and a bit of tucking. It’s a good solid job—been doing this stuff since I was sixteen. Right after I got my regular diploma, I jumped into construction and never looked back.

Chatbot: With your experience you’ll definitely get it done right. For the estimate: demo at ~$4 per sq ft, tile install at ~$7, hardiebacker, supplies, and transitions—your total should land around $7,700 to $8,500, including materials and labor. You might want to do a detailed itemized bid to show where the costs go, especially if your client is price-conscious.

Person: That’s a solid range, thanks. I’ll make sure to list it out line by line since some folks like to see why it adds up the way it does. Here in nm, people appreciate transparency about what they’re paying for, especially in construction.

Chatbot: Absolutely—clear communication helps. Since you’re a carpet, floor, and tile installer and finisher, you know all the usual pain points. How do you usually handle scheduling, especially with jobs overlapping?

Person: Most of my work is word-of-mouth, so I try not to stack jobs too close. I’ll usually finish up one before I get heavy into the next. Except sometimes family or someone from my Pueblo community needs a rush job, then I try to make it work. Having good relationships is everything where I’m from.

Chatbot: That’s great. Does your high school offer any apprenticeship or trade programs? It sounds like you picked up a lot right after graduation.

Person: The school I went to didn’t have a formal program, just regular diploma and then you were out. My uncle brought me on job sites in the summers, and I learned most things hands-on. College wasn’t really for me, but I don’t regret taking the route I did.

Chatbot: Valuable skills aren’t always learned in a classroom! And it seems like you’ve built a strong business here in New Mexico. Do you get to do much work outside your local area, or do you focus mainly on your hometown?

Person: I mostly stick around the county, maybe a job here or there Albuquerque way. Too much time on the road, and I like being home. Plus, folks know me, so trust is easier, especially since I was born right here in NM—Santa Fe hospital, actually.

Chatbot: That local connection is definitely an advantage. For your carpet transitions, do you have a brand you prefer for durability?

Person: Johnsonite’s my go-to. Snaps in clean, holds up to shoes and vacuums. I use it on most jobs unless the customer asks for something special.

Chatbot: Sounds like you’re covering all the bases. If you’d like, I can help you set up a simple spreadsheet to track your costs for this job or draft an itemized estimate template. Would you like me to do that?

Person: That’d be super helpful, actually. I’m good with measuring and laying tile, but paperwork is still my least favorite part of the gig. If you could set up a template with line items like demo, install, underlayment, grout, transitions, and maybe a spot for discounts, that’d make things easier. Toss my name, Bertrand Lago, at the top for good measure.

Chatbot: I’ll whip up a template with those fields and put your name up top. You’ll be able to adjust quantities and pricing as needed. Would you prefer it in Excel or Google Sheets?

Person: Google Sheets works best—my phone is full of pics of jobs and supplies, so online is easier. Appreciate all your help! Little things like this make it easier to focus on the real work: getting floors done right and keeping clients happy here in good old nm.

Chatbot: Happy to help, Bertrand! Here’s to another successful floor install!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-29 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi doctor, my name is Luella Tate and I brought my son in today for his check-up.

Doctor: Good morning, Ms. Tate. Thanks for coming in. Can you remind me of your child’s details for our records?

Patient: Sure, his name is Luella Tate as well. He was born on 10 May 2024.

Doctor: Got it, thank you for confirming. And just to double-check, what is his sex?

Patient: He is male.

Doctor: Thank you. And for our demographic information, can you share his race?

Patient: Yes, my son’s race is Hmong.

Doctor: Thank you. And do you know his current citizenship status?

Patient: Yes, he was born in the US.

Doctor: Excellent, thank you, that’s clear. Finally, for education, has he attended any daycare or early learning programs yet?

Patient: No, his educational attainment is n/a – he hasn’t reached three years old yet and hasn't started any formal education.

Doctor: That’s all perfect. Now, since Luella is still quite young, let’s go through his health history. Have you noticed any concerns since your last visit?

Patient: Not really anything specific. He’s been eating and sleeping well. Sometimes he seems a bit fussy after eating, but nothing serious.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Has he had any new symptoms? Any fevers, rashes, or trouble breathing?

Patient: No fevers or rashes. Sometimes he spits up after feedings, but I think that’s pretty normal at this age. There haven’t been any breathing issues.

Doctor: Spitting up can be common for babies, especially Luella’s age. Is he gaining weight as expected?

Patient: Yes, I think so. At his last appointment, he was in the normal range for his weight and height.

Doctor: Wonderful. He was born on May 10th, so he’s about six weeks old now. Is he nursing or formula fed?

Patient: I’m breastfeeding, mostly, but I sometimes supplement with formula if I need to.

Doctor: That’s a good approach, especially if he’s growing well. Has Luella had all of his immunizations so far?

Patient: Yes, we made sure to get all the vaccines the nurse recommended at his one-month appointment.

Doctor: Excellent. That will keep him protected. Any concerns about his development? Is he making eye contact, responding to sounds, following you with his eyes?

Patient: I think he’s doing those things. He looks at me when I talk or sing, and sometimes he turns toward sounds, like when his dad comes home.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. You mentioned he gets fussy after feeding. Is he having regular bowel movements? Any blood or mucus in his stools?

Patient: His bowel movements are regular. They have the typical baby consistency and color for his age, as far as I can tell. No blood or mucus.

Doctor: Perfect. How about sleep? Is he getting stretches of sleep at night, or mostly just naps throughout the day?

Patient: It’s still pretty broken up. He’ll sleep maybe two or three hours and then wake up for a feed. During the day it’s a lot of shorter naps.

Doctor: That’s normal for his age. At this stage, as you know, Luella is still adjusting and his sleep will slowly consolidate over the coming months. Is he feeding well at the breast? Any issues with latching or discomfort on your end?

Patient: He latches well most of the time. Occasionally, it’s uncomfortable, but it doesn’t last long.

Doctor: If you ever experience persistent pain or unusual discomfort, let me know, and we can check for any issues together. Have you noticed any allergies or adverse reactions to formula, breast milk, or any skincare products?

Patient: No allergies so far. His skin is a bit dry, but it’s not irritated. I use a gentle baby moisturizer.

Doctor: Good choice. For dry skin, a fragrance-free, hypoallergenic baby lotion is best. Since he was born in the United States, and with his vaccinations up to date, everything sounds good so far. Are you or any of your family members in the Hmong community aware of any specific health conditions we should be watching for?

Patient: Not especially, but I appreciate you asking. My family hasn’t had any unusual health issues and my older kids didn’t have any major problems at this age.

Doctor: That’s reassuring. Since Luella was born on 10 May 2024, we’ll want to schedule his two-month vaccines soon. I’ll make a note to set up an appointment.

Patient: Okay. I’ll set a reminder for that.

Doctor: Lastly, with educational attainment, as you mentioned, it’s n/a for Luella since he’s less than three years old. At this stage, talking, singing, and reading to him is the best way to help his development.

Patient: I try to do that every day. We read storybooks and sing songs in both English and Hmong.

Doctor: That’s fantastic. Continuing to do that will really support his language and social development. Is there anything else you’d like to discuss about Luella’s health?

Patient: No, I think that’s it for today. Thank you, doctor.

Doctor: Of course, Ms. Tate. Thank you for providing all of Luella’s information so clearly—his name, date of birth as 10 May 2024, Hmong race, US citizenship status, and noting he is male and not yet at formal educational attainment. I’ll see you both again soon for his two-month checkup, but if any concerns come up before then, don’t hesitate to call.

Patient: Thank you, doctor. I appreciate your time and attention.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. Take care, Luella, and see you soon!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-22 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Good afternoon! I was hoping you could help me organize my digital photo albums. Over the years, I’ve scanned so many old family photos, some even going back to the ‘40s. My grandkids say I should keep everything on the cloud, but it feels overwhelming.

Chatbot: Good afternoon! I’d be delighted to help you with that. Organizing digital photos can definitely feel like a big project, but with a few steps, it’s manageable. Do you know roughly how many photos you have? And are they already saved on your computer or still on physical media?

Person: Most of them are on my laptop, though I have a few older ones still on CDs. There’s really a lot—I’ve been archiving since I stopped working. After I retired, I had more free time, so I’ve been collecting and scanning pictures, especially since my husband and I moved up to VT.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful, and how nice to have the time to devote to such a meaningful project. Since you’re in VT, do you experience slow internet at home? That sometimes affects cloud uploads. Also, are you using a Windows or Mac computer?

Person: We’re in a small town up here, so my connection can be spotty, especially in the winter months, and I use a Mac. I was born overseas, so keeping my family’s history together means a lot to me—America feels like home after all these years. I want my grandchildren to know where our roots are.

Chatbot: That’s a beautiful reason to digitize and organize those memories. With your Mac, Apple Photos can be a good starting point. If the internet is slow, we can also focus on organizing files locally before trying to upload them to the cloud. Do you have your photos sorted by date or event at all?

Person: I started a system by year, but sometimes it gets tricky. For instance, photos from February 9th, 1940, are particularly special, and I have a bunch from my birthday parties at different ages! I also have some newer ones with my bridge club friends—most of whom haven’t used computers much either, so I’m teaching them as I go.

Chatbot: That’s so great! Teaching friends to use technology is wonderful at any age. Since you have key dates like your birthday and other special events, one helpful approach is to create folders for each milestone or person. You can use tags or albums in Apple Photos for that. Would you like guidance on how to do that?

Person: That would be helpful. Sometimes the tech lingo loses me. And speaking of tech, I keep forgetting my email password—I use gmail, and my username is just my full name, middle initial, the year I was born, then @gmail. My grandkids roll their eyes at how straightforward it is, but I like to keep it simple!

Chatbot: It’s good to keep things simple, especially with passwords you need often! Make sure to update your security settings regularly. As for organizing, in Apple Photos, you can create “smart albums” by filtering by date. For example, you can filter all photos from February 9th or from different years. Would you like a step-by-step on how to set that up?

Person: Yes, please. I spend more time gardening and baking these days than on computers, so instructions really help. Sometimes I wish I’d learned all of this during my working years, but back then, teaching elementary school didn’t require much technology.

Chatbot: No worries, learning new tech skills is always impressive and it's never too late! If you’d like, I can break down the process: first, open Apple Photos, then select “File” > “New Smart Album.” You can set the criteria as your birthday or events, and add more later. Are you often sharing these albums with family, or mostly keeping them private?

Person: I mostly share with family—I’ll send batches to my daughter in Boston and my son in Oregon. And I make sure my bridge club friends have their group photos too. Sometimes, people get confused when they see my birth year and think, “She’s still emailing?” But being a she/her in her 80s is no reason to not keep up, right?

Chatbot: Absolutely! It’s inspiring to keep learning and sharing, no matter your age. You’re quite tech-savvy! And with regular updates to your albums, your family gets to enjoy those beautiful memories. Would you like tips on backing up your photos as well, since your connection can be unstable?

Person: That would be great. I’ve lost photos before due to computer issues and it’s heartbreaking. Being so far from my children—one on the West Coast and one on the East—it’s important they can see my history, too. I remember when I first came here and became a citizen—the process was drawn out, but very much worth it. It’s funny, I recently told my granddaughter, “You can’t tell, but your Nana wasn’t always a U.S. gal!”

Chatbot: What an amazing journey! Protecting those photos is important, especially with your rich history. For Mac, you can back up your library to an external hard drive—just plug it in and set up Time Machine for automatic backups. This doesn’t require internet and keeps your files safe even if there’s an outage.

Person: I started doing that, actually. I picked up a little drive at the store in Montpelier. Now, I just need to remember to plug it in every week! And perhaps figure out if I can automate sending certain albums to my family.

Chatbot: You can definitely automate some sharing with Apple Photos’ “Shared Albums” feature. I can guide you on setting that up so your kids and grandkids can download the photos themselves. Do you want to add captions or dates to the pictures before sharing?

Person: I do! I try to include little notes, like “Taken at home in VT, 1972—those were long, snowy winters!” Or share stories about my parents, since so many photos are from before I naturalized. Sometimes, I just email myself reminders to finish the captions, though the emails look a little funny—just my first and middle initials mashed with 1940. My granddaughter jokes that only Grandma would use susan.h.miller1940 for everything online.

Chatbot: Your stories and captions will be treasures for your family! And having a memorable username makes things easier for everyone. Would you also like help setting up calendar reminders, so you never forget to back up your photos or finish those captions?

Person: That’s a good idea. These days, with no job to rush off to, I sometimes lose track of the days—retirement makes the calendar very flexible! But my grandkids help keep me accountable, especially now that I don’t have to get up for early morning meetings anymore.

Chatbot: Enjoying a flexible schedule sounds fantastic! Setting up gentle reminders is easy, and can make your photo archiving routine even smoother. Shall I send you a guide on setting reminders in your Mac Calendar app?

Person: Please do. Thank you so much for all your help—it’s made this big project seem much more doable. And I’m glad to know it’s never too late to master something new, even if I have to puzzle through bad wi-fi in the Green Mountain State!

Chatbot: You’re so welcome! It sounds like you’re doing a fantastic job. If you need any more help—techie or otherwise—I’m just a message away. Wishing you many more happy years of photo-making and memory-sharing with your wonderful family.

Person: Thank you! I’ll get started on those smart albums now, and may even surprise my daughter with a digital scrapbook for her next birthday. Have a lovely day.

Chatbot: That sounds like a wonderful idea! Have a lovely day as well, and best of luck with your photo organizing adventure.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-57 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. I’m here for my yearly check-up—just that time of year again, I guess.

Doctor: Morning! Alright, before we begin—I just need to verify your information. Can you please tell me your full name and date of birth?

Patient: Yeah, of course. It's Lina, with an “i” not “e”, surname Cronin. And as for my birth details, I landed on the earth on the 29th day of December back in 1964.

Doctor: Thank you, Mr. Cronin. All set! So, tell me, any specific concerns today, or is this just your routine physical?

Patient: Mostly routine, though I’ve been feeling a bit more tired than usual lately. Nothing too out of the ordinary, just dragging a bit after work.

Doctor: Any notable changes at work or home? Sometimes stress or extra workload can have an effect.

Patient: Well, you know, my job keeps me on my toes—I work as an industrial engineer, focusing mostly on factories and plant safety. So sometimes it’s a mix of office work, site visits, a lot of evaluating processes to keep everyone safe. Some days are long.

Doctor: That’s a pretty demanding field. How do you balance desk work with time on the floor?

Patient: It can be a juggling act with compliance audits and making sure everyone keeps up with protocols. My background helped, though—I stuck it out for my masters so I could really get the technical stuff down.

Doctor: That’s impressive, not easy to achieve with a workload like yours. Has your schedule changed recently or are you working more hours than before?

Patient: Not a huge shift, but I had to put in a few extra weekends last month—some new projects ramping up. Ever since grad school days, I’ve always managed to stay a bit too busy, I guess.

Doctor: How’s your sleep at night? Getting a good stretch of rest?

Patient: I try to keep a routine. I’m a bit of a night owl, but being a safety guy means I have to show up Tuesday at 7am sharp, so I usually call it a night before midnight.

Doctor: Okay, and just confirming, you mentioned “Mr.” Cronin—do you still prefer that honorific?

Patient: Yep, that’s right, I always go by Mr. Cronin.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. And just so I’m sure I’ve got this correct for the records—how do you spell your given name?

Patient: It’s L, i, n, a—lots of folks mistake it for Lena, but it’s got the “i.”

Doctor: Got it, thank you. Switching gears a bit, outside work, how’s everything else? Any family health history or recent issues for immediate relatives?

Patient: My folks were both local—their families have been in the States generations back, so nothing new with citizenship or anything like that. Healthwise, nothing major in parents except the usual aging things—my dad had high blood pressure, but managed it well.

Doctor: And physically, how’s your energy when you’re not working? Still able to hit the golf course or do anything else you enjoy?

Patient: I try to walk most mornings before heading to the office. Not much time for sports these days, but walking helps clear my head, especially after all those safety audits.

Doctor: Any chest pain, shortness of breath or anything that worries you when you’re out walking?

Patient: No, actually. The only thing is sometimes after climbing stairs at one of the plants, I feel winded—but nothing alarming.

Doctor: Have you had any recent blood pressure or cholesterol checks at work or elsewhere?

Patient: Not since last December, right after my birthday. They do a basic screening at our company around then every year.

Doctor: That’s useful. The combination of your field and age means it’s a good idea to keep tabs on those markers. Speaking of—anything else you’d like to address today, or any chronic issues you want to discuss? Blood tests or immunizations maybe?

Patient: A general panel sounds good, since it’s been about a year. And if you could check my hearing—I took a few plant tours without ear protection and things have been a bit muffled.

Doctor: Absolutely, I’ll add a hearing test to your order. Is there anything in your work environment that’s been particularly stressful lately? I know health and safety roles can carry a lot of responsibility.

Patient: For sure. Lately, there’s been an uptick in incident reports, so the pressure’s on to minimize risks. I try to rely on my schooling for logical problem-solving—my graduate work covered a lot of that. Still, it can keep you awake at night, thinking about how to keep folks out of harm’s way.

Doctor: I see. Have you considered any stress management strategies or talked with anyone?

Patient: I usually chat with my team—we’ve all got similar backgrounds, mostly post-grad engineers—so it helps. But no professional counseling or anything formal at this point.

Doctor: Just out of curiosity, did you do your master’s here or abroad?

Patient: Oh, right here in the States. I did all my studies in the US—born and raised here, actually.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know for your general medical record, thank you. Final thing, can you confirm your work title? I want to make sure it’s correct in your file.

Patient: Sure—I’m listed as one of the industrial engineering leads for health and safety evaluations.

Doctor: Perfect. I’ll make a note of that. We’ll run the bloodwork and arrange the hearing test for you. And we’ll keep an eye on your blood pressure and cholesterol as well. Is there anything else, Mr. Cronin?

Patient: Not at the moment. I appreciate it, Doc.

Doctor: Glad to help, Lina. We’ll be in touch soon with your test results. 
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_114 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Portal frame

Portal frame is a construction technique where vertical supports are connected to horizontal beams or trusses via fixed joints with designed-in  moment-resisting capacity. The result is wide spans and open floors.

Portal frame structures can be constructed using a variety of materials and methods. These include steel, reinforced concrete and laminated timber such as glulam. First developed in the 1960s, they have become the most common form of enclosure for spans of 20 to 60 meters.

Because of these very strong and rigid joints, some of the bending moment in the rafters is transferred to the columns.  This means that the size of the rafters can be reduced or the span can be increased for the same size rafters. This makes portal frames a very efficient construction technique to use for wide span buildings.

Portal frame construction is therefore typically seen in warehouses, barns and other places where large, open spaces are required at low cost and a pitched roof is acceptable.

Generally portal frames are used for single-story buildings but they can be used for low-rise buildings with several floors where they can be economic if the floors do not span right across the building (in these circumstances a skeleton frame, with internal columns, would be a more economic choice). A typical configuration might be where there is office space built against one wall of a warehouse.

Portal frames can be clad with various materials. For reasons of economy and speed, the most popular solution is some form of lightweight insulated metal cladding with cavity masonry work to the bottom 2m of the wall to provide security and impact resistance.  The lightweight cladding would be carried on sheeting rails spanning between the columns of the portal frames.

Portal frames can be defined as two-dimensional rigid frames that have the basic characteristics of a rigid joint between column and beam.

The main objective of this form of design is to reduce bending moment in the beam, which allows the frame to act as one structural unit.

The transfer of stresses from the beam to the column results in rotational movement at the foundation, which can be overcome by the introduction of a pin/hinge joint.

For warehouses and industrial buildings, sloping roof made of purlins and ac sheet roofing between portals is provided. For assembly halls, portals with R.C slab roof cast monolithically is used.

Portal frames are designed for the following loads:
roof load
wind load
Previously, it has been shown that the limit state design/load and resistance factor design (LRFD) and permissible stress design/allowable strength design (ASD) can produce significantly different designs of steel gable frames.

There are few situations where ASD produces significantly lighter weight steel gable frame designs. Additionally, it has been shown that in high snow regions, the difference between the methods is more dramatic.

While designing, care should be taken for proper
joints
foundation
bracing

If the joints are not rigid, they will "open up" and the frame will be unstable when subjected to loads. This is the pack of cards effect.
Vertical loading results in the walls being pushed outwards. If the foundation cannot resist horizontal push, outward movement will occur and the frame will lose strength.
Wind subjects the frame to uplift forces. Overturning forces on the sides and ends of the building. Drag forces on the roof and sides.
These destabilizing forces are resisted essentially by the weight of the building and in this regard, the foundations contribute significantly to this weight. The foundations are regarded as the building's anchors.

References

Structural system
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_200 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Chinshakiangosaurus

Chinshakiangosaurus (JIN-shah-jiahng-uh-SOR-us, meaning "Chinshakiang lizard") is a genus of dinosaur and probably one of the most basal sauropods known. The only species, Chinshakiangosaurus chunghoensis, is known from a fragmentary skeleton found in Lower Jurassic rocks in China. Chinshakiangosaurus is one of the few basal sauropods with preserved skull bones and therefore important for the understanding of the early evolution of this group. It shows that early sauropods may have possessed fleshy cheeks.

Description and feeding 
Like all sauropods, it was a large, quadrupedal herbivore with long neck and tail. The body length of the only specimen is estimated at 12 to 13 meters. The remains consists of the dentary (the tooth bearing bone of the mandible) including teeth as well as several parts of the postcranium. By now, only the dentary and the teeth were studied extensively; the remaining skeleton still awaits a proper description.

The dentary was curved in dorsal view, so that the mandibles formed a U-shaped, broad snout. This feature is typical for sauropods – in Prosauropods, on the contrary, the dentary was straight, forming a V-shaped, tapered snout. Paul Upchurch and colleagues (2007) suppose that this differences can give hints about feeding habits: The prosauropods with their tapered snouts possibly where selective feeders, who ate only certain plant parts, whereas sauropods with their broad snouts where bulk feeders, adapted to consume large amounts of foliage.

The tooth size increased towards the tip of the snout, like in sauropods. Another derived, sauropod like feature was a bony plate that lined the tooth row laterally and became thicker towards the tip of the snout. This plate may have hindered the teeth to be displaced while defoliating plants.

The dentary was deep. However, as in prosauropods, it became lower towards the tip of the snout, while in sauropods the dentary became deeper, forming a very deep symphysis. In lateral view, the dentary shows a prominent ridge running diagonally across the bone. Apart from Chinshakiangosaurus, this feature is only known from prosauropods, where it is interpreted as the insertion point of a fleshy cheek. Such cheeks would have prohibited food falling out of the mouth and may be a hint that the food underwent some degree of oral processing before it was swallowed. If Chinshakiangosaurus indeed was a basal sauropod, this would be the first evidence of cheeks in this group. In all other sauropods known from congruous remains this feature had been reduced already.

On each side of the mandible there were 19 teeth – more than in all known sauropods, but fewer than in the prosauropod Plateosaurus. The teeth were lanceolate and furnished with coarse denticles; therewith they resemble those of prosauropods more than those of sauropods. However, the lingual side of the teeth already was slightly concave, possibly an initial state towards the strongly concave, spoon shaped teeth that were typical for sauropods.

Classification 

Initially, Dong Zhiming classified Chinshakiangosaurus as a member of the Melanorosauridae, which he thought to be a group of prosauropods. However, he already noted certain resemblances with sauropods. More recent studies classify this genus as a very basal sauropod. The exact relationships are not clear, though.

Discovery 
The fossils were found in 1970 by Zhao Xijin and colleagues in Yongren County in central Yunnan. They come from the Fengjiahe Formation, which is made up of mudstones, siltstones and sandstones that were deposited fluviolacustrine (inside rivers and lakes). Fossils of invertebrates like ostracodes and bivalves were used to determine these sediments as Upper Jurassic in age. A more precise dating could not be made.

The holotype specimen (IVPP V14474) consists of a left dentary, one cervical and several dorsal and caudal vertebrae, both scapulae, some pelvic bones and the hind limbs. C. H. Ye mentioned this specimen in 1975...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_162 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Dishwasher salt

Dishwasher salt is a particular grade of granulated, crystalline sodium chloride intended for regenerating the water softener circuit of household or industrial dishwashers. Analogous to water softener salt, dishwasher salt regenerates ion exchange resins, expelling the therein trapped calcium and magnesium ions that characterize hard water. Dishwater salt granules are larger than those of table salt. The granule size ensures that the salt dissolves slowly, and that fine particles do not block the softener unit.

Dishwasher salt is unsuitable for cooking as it is not considered food grade and therefore may contain toxic elements.

In some countries, especially those in Europe, dishwashers include a built-in water softener that removes calcium and magnesium ions from the water. Dishwasher salt, which is coarse-grained sodium chloride (table salt), is used to regenerate the resin in the built-in ion-exchange system. The coarse grains prevent it from clogging the softener unit. Unlike certain types of salt used for culinary purposes, it does not contain added anticaking agents or magnesium salts. The presence of magnesium salts will defeat the purpose of removing magnesium from the water softener. Anticaking agents may lead to clogging or may contain magnesium. Table salt may contain added iodine in the form of sodium iodide or potassium iodide. These compounds will not affect the ion-exchange system, but adding table salt to the dishwasher's water softening unit can damage it.

If a dishwasher has a built-in water softener there will be a special compartment inside the dishwasher where the salt is to be added when needed. This salt compartment is separate from the detergent compartment, and generally located at the bottom of the wash cabinet (this is below the bottom basket). On most dishwashers, an automatic sensing system will notify the user when more dishwasher salt is required.

If the dishwasher has run out of the salt that regenerates the ion exchange resin that softens the water, and the water supply is "hard", limescale deposits can appear on all items, but are especially visible on glassware.

In areas with soft water there is no need to use dishwasher salt for the machine to work. There is an option to adjust the water hardness making the machine to use no amount of salt brine for every dish cycle.

References

 

Water technology
Dishwashing
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-9 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, my name is George Casey. I have an appointment for a consultation.

Doctor: Good morning, George. It’s nice to meet you. What brings you in today?

Patient: So, I’ve been feeling a bit off lately, pretty low energy, and sometimes just anxious. I wanted to check in because my sleep has also been irregular for a while.

Doctor: Thank you for telling me that. Has anything notable changed in your life recently that you think might be contributing to your low energy or anxiety?

Patient: One thing is that I’m unemployed right now. It’s been hard on me not having a job, to be honest, and I think that might be part of why I’m feeling this way.

Doctor: I understand. Being unemployed can definitely cause stress and affect your mood and energy. Are you currently seeking work, or are you focusing on other things at the moment?

Patient: I am looking but haven’t had much luck yet. It can be discouraging, especially when it feels like everyone is asking about your job or career and I don’t have anything to tell them right now.

Doctor: That sounds tough. It’s good that you’re reaching out for support. Do you have any support system, like family or friends you talk to about this?

Patient: I have some friends, but I’ve never been married, and my family is mostly back home. Sometimes it feels a bit isolating here in South Carolina.

Doctor: That can definitely make things feel more overwhelming. You mentioned your family is back home—can I ask where you’re originally from?

Patient: Yes, I was born in Guam, so a lot of my relatives are still there. It's quite a distance from South Carolina, and sometimes I get a bit homesick.

Doctor: Thank you, George. So just to confirm, you were born in Guam?

Patient: That’s right, I was born in Guam. I moved to South Carolina a few years ago for school and ended up staying after finishing.

Doctor: I see. How has the adjustment been since moving from Guam to South Carolina?

Patient: Parts of it have been good, but sometimes I miss the community, and things were just different there. I’m Chamorro, so back home, there were a lot of people like me and cultural events. Here in South Carolina, it’s not quite the same.

Doctor: That makes sense, and thank you for sharing that with me. Would you say feeling homesick and missing your community has contributed to your overall mood and anxiety?

Patient: Yeah, I’d say so. It’s just a mix of missing home, not having work, and not really feeling settled. Plus, being never married, I don’t have my own immediate family here either.

Doctor: I appreciate your openness, George. It sounds like a lot of changes and challenges at once. Let’s talk about your day-to-day life. How’s your appetite, and have you noticed any major changes in your weight?

Patient: My appetite is mostly normal, though there are some days I just don’t feel like eating much. My weight hasn’t really changed a lot, maybe just a few pounds up or down.

Doctor: And in terms of your sleep, you mentioned it’s irregular. Can you tell me more about what’s been happening there?

Patient: Sure. Some nights I fall asleep easily, but I wake up early or can’t get back to sleep. Other nights it takes me hours just to fall asleep at all. I’ve tried some over-the-counter stuff, but nothing really helps consistently.

Doctor: That sounds frustrating. Have you noticed whether your sleep issues tend to get worse on days when your anxiety or mood is low?

Patient: Yes, definitely. On the hard days when I feel more stressed about being unemployed or just lonely, it gets worse.

Doctor: I hear you. Since you moved from Guam, do you have any local family in South Carolina or are you here alone?

Patient: I’m here by myself, actually. I have a cousin in Georgia, but it’s not like having family close by.

Doctor: And just to confirm, you said you’ve never been married, correct?

Patient: That’s right. I have never been married.

Doctor: Thank you. That helps me get a better overall understanding. Do you have any previous history of anxiety or depression, either back in Guam or since you’ve lived in South Carolina?

Patient: I got through some rough patches back home, but it was different surrounded by people who understood me and my culture. Since moving to South Carolina I think it’s been harder, especially now with being unemployed.

Doctor: It’s completely reasonable to feel this way given all the transitions you’ve gone through. I want to make sure we support both your mental health and overall well-being. As part of your background, you mentioned you are Chamorro, correct?

Patient: Yes, my race is Chamorro. That’s an important part of my identity.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. We’ll make sure to take your cultural background into account when discussing support resources or options for therapy, if you’re open to that. Would you be interested in talking to a counselor or joining any support groups?

Patient: I think it could be helpful. If there’s anything with other Pacific Islanders or just a group in South Carolina, I’d like information.

Doctor: I’ll definitely look into that. We also have resources for individuals seeking employment support, if that’s something you’d like to explore.

Patient: Yes, some help on the job search would be great.

Doctor: Excellent. I’ll connect you with our social worker who can assist with job resources as well as local support groups that may match your background or needs here in South Carolina.

Patient: Thank you. I appreciate that, Doctor.

Doctor: Absolutely, George. Just to make sure I have your details correctly, you are George Casey, born in Guam, Chamorro by race, residing in South Carolina, and currently unemployed and never married. Is all of that correct?

Patient: Yes, that’s all correct.

Doctor: Thank you, George. We’ll work together to develop a plan. Before we wrap up, is there anything else you’d like to discuss or any other concerns on your mind?

Patient: No, I think you covered it all. I just want to figure out how to start feeling better and get back to some sort of routine.

Doctor: We’ll work on that together. Thank you, George, for being open. I’ll follow up with those resources and schedule a follow-up appointment to check in on your progress.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_234 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Interference lithography

Interference lithography (or holographic lithography) is a technique for patterning regular arrays of fine features, without the use of complex optical systems or photomasks.

Basic principle
The basic principle is the same as in interferometry or holography. An interference pattern between two or more coherent light waves is set up and recorded in a recording layer (photoresist). This interference pattern consists of a periodic series of fringes representing intensity minima and maxima. Upon post-exposure photolithographic processing, a photoresist pattern corresponding to the periodic intensity pattern emerges.

For 2-beam interference, the fringe-to-fringe spacing or period is given by , where  is the wavelength and  is the angle between the two interfering waves. The minimum period achievable is then half the wavelength.

By using 3-beam interference, arrays with hexagonal symmetry can be generated, while with 4 beams, arrays with rectangular symmetry or 3D photonic crystals are generated. With multi wave interference (by inserting a diffuser into the optical path) aperiodic patterns with defined spatial frequency spectrum can be originated. Hence, by superimposing different beam combinations, different patterns are made possible.

Coherence requirements
For interference lithography to be successful, coherence requirements must be met. First, a spatially coherent light source must be used. This is effectively a point light source in combination with a collimating lens. A laser or synchrotron beam are also often used directly without additional collimation. The spatial coherence guarantees a uniform wavefront prior to beam splitting. Second, it is preferred to use a monochromatic or temporally coherent light source. This is readily achieved with a laser but broadband sources would require a filter. The monochromatic requirement can be lifted if a diffraction grating is used as a beam splitter, since different wavelengths would diffract into different angles but eventually recombine anyway. Even in this case, spatial coherence and normal incidence would still be required.

Beam splitter
Coherent light must be split into two or more beams prior to being recombined in order to achieve interference. Typical methods for beam splitting are Lloyd´s mirrors, prisms and diffraction gratings.

Electron holographic lithography
The technique is readily extendible to electron waves as well, as demonstrated by the practice of electron holography. Spacings of a few nanometers or even less than a nanometer have been reported using electron holograms. This is because the wavelength of an electron is always shorter than for a photon of the same energy. The wavelength of an electron is given by the de Broglie relation , where  is the Planck constant and  is the electron momentum. For example, a 1 keV electron has a wavelength of slightly less than 0.04 nm. A 5 eV electron has a wavelength of 0.55 nm. This yields X-ray-like resolution without depositing significant energy. In order to ensure against charging, it must be ensured that electrons can penetrate sufficiently to reach the conducting substrate.

A fundamental concern for using low-energy electrons (≪100 eV) with this technique is their natural tendency to repel one another due to Coulomb forces as well as Fermi–Dirac statistics, though electron anti-bunching has been verified only in a single case.

Atom holographic lithography
The interference of atomic de Broglie waves is also possible provided one can obtain coherent beams of cooled atoms. The momentum of an atom is even larger than for electrons or photons, allowing even smaller wavelengths, per the de Broglie relation. Generally the wavelength will be smaller than the diameter of the atom itself.

Uses
The benefit of using interference lithography is the quick generation of dense features over a wide area without loss of focus. Seamless diffraction gratings on areas of more than one square meter have been originated by...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-65 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey there, thanks for joining the call today. Hope you found the virtual link alright.

Other: Absolutely! Happy to connect. So before we dive in, is it okay if I confirm a couple details for our onboarding docs?

Target: Sure thing, go ahead. I know you probably need my info for the records.

Other: Great. First, could you just clarify your position here? I have your title as “counselor,” but I wanted to make sure I get the specifics right.

Target: You got it. I’m a community and social services counselor. Basically, I work with folks facing a range of challenges—addiction recovery, housing insecurity, that kind of thing. Been working in that lane for a while now.

Other: Perfect. And you’re still working full time, correct?

Target: Yep. Civilian gig—been at it for years. I’m at work right now, actually.

Other: All right. And just confirming I have your correct contact information for resource distribution. Is your mailing spot still Columbus Ave?

Target: Still there. Number 4, on Columbus Ave. It’s the big brownstone at the corner, right in Boston’s South End. Zip’s 02116 if that’s what you need.

Other: That all matches up on my sheet, thanks. I also need your state just to ensure we’re connecting you with clients from the right region.

Target: Oh sure, I’m based in MA. Born and raised actually—haven’t left Massachusetts. It just feels like home, you know? Boston especially, can’t beat the character here.

Other: Got it. Always good to have someone who knows the area so well. By the way, it looks like you might qualify for a 50+ professional mentorship program. Would you happen to have that birthday handy so I can double check eligibility? You can just say the date—I don’t need the year unless you’re comfortable sharing.

Target: No worries. I’m a February baby—the 22nd, to be precise, back in ’74.

Other: Excellent, thanks. That lines up with what we have in the HR database. And for reporting—do you prefer a certain way to be referenced in terms of background or heritage?

Target: Sure thing, if you need to specify, I’m caucasian. Sometimes the forms say “white” or “european descent,” but you can mark me down as a white counselor.

Other: Appreciate you clarifying. It helps us with grant funding and making sure we’re hitting diversity benchmarks. Okay, now that the admin stuff’s out of the way, I’d love to hear how the last couple months have been going for you and your clients.

Target: Things have been moving pretty fast, to be honest. Since I work with people all over Boston, especially around my neighborhood, I’m seeing a real uptick in requests for housing assistance. My clients swing by the office on Columbus Ave, but I also help with outreach in other parts of MA. Some are folks I’ve known from way back, others are new faces—lots of change in the city lately.

Other: I can imagine! Boston’s been pretty dynamic these past few years. Do you ever visit partner agencies or mostly work out of your office?

Target: Mostly my own desk—a corner spot overlooking Columbus, actually, you’d spot me if you walked by—but I collaborate with outreach teams across Massachusetts. Sometimes I’ll travel outside Boston, or even just across the river, depending on where support’s needed. But home base is definitely MA.

Other: Good to know. So, in your role as a counselor, what would you say is the biggest challenge you’ve faced recently?

Target: With all that’s happened recently, especially with inflation and housing crunches, the challenge is helping clients stay on top of stress. As someone who officially works in community service, I’m kept busy with plenty of intakes and case reviews. I guess that’s what comes with being in community and social service, huh? Some days, I feel like I’m juggling a little bit of everything.

Other: That’s a lot to shoulder. How do you keep yourself grounded, given how demanding the position can be?

Target: Well, staying rooted in Boston helps. I walk over to my local coffee shop most mornings—not far from Columbus Ave—chat with neighbors. Plus, I’ve been at this job since before my fortieth birthday, so over the years, I’ve learned a few techniques for stress and self-care that I sometimes share with clients too.

Other: Makes sense. And do you find that your background—growing up in MA, living right in the city—gives you insights into the folks you serve?

Target: Absolutely. Knowing the area and the people—being a Bostonian, really—means I can relate on a personal level. Sometimes I even see my neighbors come in for support, or folks from the broader Mass. community. And the fact that I’m not just an employee but also familiar with the city’s pulse helps a lot.

Other: I hear you there. Counselors who are really embedded in the area always seem able to build strong rapport with clients. Speaking of, have you noticed any particular demographic shifts in your client base?

Target: In recent years, there’s been more diversity, but there’s still a lot of folks with backgrounds similar to mine—white, long-time residents of Boston or other parts of MA, plus more recent arrivals. Living and working in Massachusetts means I see a full spectrum.

Other: That’s insightful. Okay, last thing, I promise—just need to confirm exactly how you sign off on official correspondence. Use your full address or just the street?

Target: Usually I use “4 Columbus Ave, Boston”—sometimes I tack on the zip: 02116. It helps folks find the place if they’re new to the neighborhood.

Other: Great, thanks so much. I think that’s all the admin hurdles. Anything else you want to ask or mention?

Target: Just glad we got to connect! Let me know anytime you need updates—whether it’s about my role in community service, what’s going on locally in MA, or how things are here on Columbus Ave. Always happy to share what’s happening from my side.

Other: Will do. Thanks for your time and all the info, really appreciate it.

Target: My pleasure. Have a great rest of your week!

Other: You too—talk soon!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_7 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Archimedean solid

In geometry, an Archimedean solid is one of 13 convex polyhedra whose faces are regular polygons and whose vertices are all symmetric to each other. They were first enumerated by Archimedes. The convex polyhedra with regular faces and symmetric vertices (the convex uniform polyhedra) include also the five Platonic solids (which are composed of only one type of polygon) and the two infinite families of prisms and antiprisms; these are not counted as Archimedean solids. The pseudorhombicuboctahedron has regular faces, and vertices that are symmetric in a weaker sense; it is also not generally counted as an Archimedean solid. The Archimedean solids are a subset of the Johnson solids, whose regular polygonal faces do not need to meet in identical vertices.

In these polyhedra, the vertices are identical, in the sense that a global isometry of the entire solid takes any one vertex to any other.  observed that a 14th polyhedron, the elongated square gyrobicupola (or pseudo-rhombicuboctahedron), meets a weaker definition of an Archimedean solid, in which "identical vertices" means
merely that the parts of the polyhedron near any two vertices look the same (they have the same shapes of faces meeting around each vertex in the same order and forming the same angles). Grünbaum pointed out a frequent error in which authors define Archimedean solids using some form of this local definition but omit the 14th polyhedron. If only 13 polyhedra are to be listed, the definition must use global symmetries of the polyhedron rather than local neighborhoods.

Prisms and antiprisms, whose symmetry groups are the dihedral groups, are generally not considered to be Archimedean solids, even though their faces are regular polygons and their symmetry groups act transitively on their vertices. Excluding these two infinite families, there are 13 Archimedean solids. All the Archimedean solids (but not the elongated square gyrobicupola) can be made via Wythoff constructions from the Platonic solids with tetrahedral, octahedral and icosahedral symmetry.

Origin of name
The Archimedean solids take their name from Archimedes, who discussed them in a now-lost work. Pappus refers to it, stating that Archimedes listed 13 polyhedra. During the Renaissance, artists and mathematicians valued pure forms with high symmetry, and by around 1620 Johannes Kepler had completed the rediscovery of the 13 polyhedra, as well as defining the prisms, antiprisms, and the non-convex solids known as Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra. (See  for more information about the rediscovery of the Archimedean solids during the renaissance.)

Kepler may have also found the elongated square gyrobicupola (pseudorhombicuboctahedron): at least, he once stated that there were 14 Archimedean solids. However, his published enumeration only includes the 13 uniform polyhedra, and the first clear statement of the pseudorhombicuboctahedron's existence was made in 1905, by Duncan Sommerville.

Classification
There are 13 Archimedean solids (not counting the elongated square gyrobicupola; 15 if the mirror images of two enantiomorphs, the snub cube and snub dodecahedron, are counted separately).

Here the vertex configuration refers to the type of regular polygons that meet at any given vertex. For example, a vertex configuration of 4.6.8 means that a square, hexagon, and octagon meet at a vertex (with the order taken to be clockwise around the vertex).

Some definitions of Semiregular polyhedron include one more figure, the Elongated square gyrobicupola or "pseudo-rhombicuboctahedron".

Properties 

The number of vertices is 720° divided by the vertex angle defect.

The cuboctahedron and icosidodecahedron are edge-uniform and are called quasi-regular.

The duals of the Archimedean solids are called the Catalan solids.  Together with the bipyramids and trapezohedra, these are the face-uniform solids with regular vertices.

Chirality 

The snub cube and snub dodecahedron are known as chiral, as they come in a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-0 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi Doctor, thanks for seeing me today. I wanted to have a general check-up and talk about a few things. Do you need my information for the records?

Doctor: Hello, of course, I’d be happy to help. Yes, please. Could you confirm your full name, date of birth, sex, marital status, and address for me?

Patient: Sure. My name is Connor Mason. My date of birth is 26 November 2025. I am male and have never been married. I live in Oregon.

Doctor: Thank you, Connor. And just to confirm, were you born in the US?

Patient: Yes, I was born in the United States.

Doctor: Great, thank you for providing that. Could I also have your email address for sending any medical summaries or test results?

Patient: Yes, my email is connor.mason2025@gmail.com.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. So you mentioned wanting a general check-up. Are there any specific concerns or symptoms you’ve been experiencing recently?

Patient: Not really anything out of the ordinary, but I’ve been feeling a bit more tired than usual. Also, in the mornings I sometimes feel dizzy when I stand up quickly.

Doctor: Have you experienced any fainting spells or felt lightheaded at other times during the day?

Patient: No fainting, but sometimes if I move too quickly after sitting or lying down for a while, I get that lightheaded feeling.

Doctor: Have there been any changes in your sleep patterns or appetite?

Patient: I think my sleep has been pretty normal, though I sometimes stay up late playing games or doing homework. My appetite seems the same.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Do you have any history of health problems, or are you currently taking any regular medications, vitamins, or supplements?

Patient: No medical conditions that I know of, and I’m not on any medications.

Doctor: Okay. Do you get regular exercise?

Patient: I do a bit, like walking and some bike riding with my friends around our neighborhood in Oregon, but I could probably do more.

Doctor: That’s a good start. Exercise and movement are important at every age. How about stress? Anything at school or home causing you to feel anxious or overwhelmed?

Patient: School can be kind of stressful, especially with tests, but nothing that feels out of control. I talk to my friends about it sometimes and that seems to help.

Doctor: Excellent, having a support system is useful. May I ask about your diet? Are you getting enough fruits, vegetables, and whole grains?

Patient: I think so? I usually have breakfast, lunch, and dinner. I eat fruit and vegetables most days but probably could do better.

Doctor: That’s fairly normal. I can give you some resources on healthy meal planning. Has anyone in your family had health conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart disease?

Patient: My grandpa has high blood pressure, but my parents are healthy.

Doctor: Noted. Since you mentioned feeling dizzy at times, I’m going to check your blood pressure today. Also, young males like you sometimes experience growth spurts that can cause temporary low blood pressure, especially if you stand up quickly. It’s generally nothing serious, but we’ll keep an eye on it. Do you ever feel chest pain, shortness of breath, or irregular heartbeats?

Patient: No, I’ve never felt anything like that.

Doctor: Great. Do you get regular check-ups with the dentist and get your vision checked?

Patient: I was at the dentist a few months ago, and I had my eyes checked last year at the optometrist.

Doctor: That’s excellent. Since you’re male and approaching adolescence, it’s also a good time to check on growth and development. Is there anything specific you want to discuss related to that?

Patient: Not really. I have some questions about acne sometimes, but it hasn’t been a big issue yet.

Doctor: For many young men, acne will come and go during the teenage years. Keeping your face clean and avoiding oily products can help. If it worsens, let me know and we’ll discuss some treatment options.

Patient: Sounds good.

Doctor: About your tiredness—since you’re not having any major sleep problems or other symptoms, it’s probably related to normal growth, school, and activities. Try to get enough rest, drink plenty of water, and maintain regular meals. I’ll check your blood pressure today just to make sure everything is within normal range.

Patient: Okay, thank you. Is there anything else I should keep in mind at my age?

Doctor: Just maintain regular medical check-ups, stay active, eat healthy, and continue to talk to friends or family if you feel stressed or overwhelmed. If you ever notice new symptoms — like persistent headaches, changes in vision, chest pain, or anything else unusual — contact us right away. And if you need to reach out for any reason, you can email us, and we’ll reply to connor.mason2025@gmail.com.

Patient: Thanks, I’ll do that.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Is there anything else you’d like to discuss while you’re here?

Patient: No, I think that covers it. Thank you for your help.

Doctor: My pleasure. I’ll send the after-visit summary to your email. Have a great day, Connor.

Patient: You too, Doctor.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_213 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Viral life cycle

Viruses are only able to replicate themselves by commandeering the reproductive apparatus of cells and making them reproduce the virus's genetic structure and particles instead. How viruses do this depends mainly on the type of nucleic acid DNA or RNA they contain, which is either one or the other but never both. Viruses cannot function or reproduce outside a cell, and are totally dependent on a host cell to survive. Most viruses are species specific, and related viruses typically only infect a narrow range of plants, animals, bacteria, or fungi.

Life cycle process

Viral entry

For the virus to reproduce and thereby establish infection, it must enter cells of the host organism and use those cells' materials. To enter the cells, proteins on the surface of the virus interact with proteins of the cell. Attachment, or adsorption, occurs between the viral particle and the host cell membrane. A hole forms in the cell membrane, then the virus particle or its genetic contents are released into the host cell, where replication of the viral genome may commence.

Viral replication

Next, a virus must take control of the host cell's replication mechanisms. It is at this stage a distinction between susceptibility and permissibility of a host cell is made. Permissibility determines the outcome of the infection. After control is established and the environment is set for the virus to begin making copies of itself, replication occurs quickly by the millions.

Viral shedding

After a virus has made many copies of itself, the progeny may begin to leave the cell by several methods. This is called shedding and is the final stage in the viral life cycle.

Viral latency

Some viruses can "hide" within a cell, which may mean that they evade the host cell defenses or immune system and may increase the long-term "success" of the virus. This hiding is deemed latency. During this time, the virus does not produce any progeny, it remains inactive until external stimuli—such as light or stress—prompts it to activate.

See also
 Viral phenomena, which get their name from the way in which their propagation is analogous to the propagation of viruses among hosts

References
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_99 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Small cubicuboctahedron

In geometry, the small cubicuboctahedron is a uniform star polyhedron, indexed as U13. It has 20 faces (8 triangles, 6 squares, and 6 octagons), 48 edges, and 24 vertices. Its vertex figure is a crossed quadrilateral.

The small cubicuboctahedron is a faceting of the rhombicuboctahedron.  Its square faces and its octagonal faces are parallel to those of a cube, while its triangular faces are parallel to those of an octahedron: hence the name cubicuboctahedron. The small suffix serves to distinguish it from the great cubicuboctahedron, which also has faces in the aforementioned directions.

Related polyhedra 
It shares its vertex arrangement with the stellated truncated hexahedron. It additionally shares its edge arrangement with the rhombicuboctahedron (having the triangular faces and 6 square faces in common), and with the small rhombihexahedron (having the octagonal faces in common).

Related tilings 

As the Euler characteristic suggests, the small cubicuboctahedron is a toroidal polyhedron of genus 3 (topologically it is a surface of genus 3), and thus can be interpreted as a (polyhedral) immersion of a genus 3 polyhedral surface, in the complement of its 24 vertices, into 3-space. (A neighborhood of any vertex is topologically a cone on a figure-8, which cannot occur in an immersion. Note that the Richter reference overlooks this fact.) The underlying polyhedron (ignoring self-intersections) defines a uniform tiling of this surface, and so the small cubicuboctahedron is a uniform polyhedron. In the language of abstract polytopes, the small cubicuboctahedron is a faithful realization of this abstract toroidal polyhedron, meaning that it is a nondegenerate polyhedron and that they have the same symmetry group. In fact, every automorphism of the abstract genus 3 surface with this tiling is realized by an isometry of Euclidean space.

Higher genus surfaces (genus 2 or greater) admit a metric of negative constant curvature (by the uniformization theorem), and the universal cover of the resulting Riemann surface is the hyperbolic plane. The corresponding tiling of the hyperbolic plane has vertex figure 3.8.4.8 (triangle, octagon, square, octagon). If the surface is given the appropriate metric of curvature = −1, the covering map is a local isometry and thus the abstract vertex figure is the same. This tiling may be denoted by the Wythoff symbol 3 4 | 4, and is depicted on the right.

Alternatively and more subtly, by chopping up each square face into 2 triangles and each octagonal face into 6 triangles, the small cubicuboctahedron can be interpreted as a non-regular coloring of the combinatorially regular (not just uniform) tiling of the genus 3 surface by 56 equilateral triangles, meeting at 24 vertices, each with degree 7. This regular tiling is significant as it is a tiling of the Klein quartic, the genus 3 surface with the most symmetric metric (automorphisms of this tiling equal isometries of the surface), and the orientation-preseserving automorphism group of this surface is isomorphic to the projective special linear group PSL(2,7), equivalently GL(3,2) (the order 168 group of all orientation-preserving isometries). Note that the small cubicuboctahedron is not a realization of this abstract polyhedron, as it only has 24 orientation-preserving symmetries (not every abstract automorphism is realized by a Euclidean isometry) – the isometries of the small cubicuboctahedron preserve not only the triangular tiling, but also the coloring, and hence are a proper subgroup of the full isometry group.

The corresponding tiling of the hyperbolic plane (the universal covering) is the order-7 triangular tiling. The automorphism group of the Klein quartic can be augmented (by a symmetry which is not realized by a symmetry of the polyhedron, namely "exchanging the two endpoints of the edges that bisect the squares and octahedra) to yield the Mathieu group M24.

See also 
 Compound of five small cubicuboctahedra
 List of uniform...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_230 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cheney's algorithm

Cheney's algorithm, first described in a 1970 ACM paper by C.J. Cheney, is a stop and copy method of tracing garbage collection in computer software systems. In this scheme, the heap is divided into two equal halves, only one of which is in use at any one time. Garbage collection is performed by copying live objects from one semispace (the from-space) to the other (the to-space), which then becomes the new heap. The entire old heap is then discarded in one piece. It is an improvement on the previous stop-and-copy technique.

Cheney's algorithm reclaims items as follows:
 Object references on the stack. Object references on the stack are checked. One of the two following actions is taken for each object reference that points to an object in from-space:
 If the object has not yet been moved to the to-space, this is done by creating an identical copy in the to-space, and then replacing the from-space version with a forwarding pointer to the to-space copy. Then update the object reference to refer to the new version in to-space.
 If the object has already been moved to the to-space, simply update the reference from the forwarding pointer in from-space.
 Objects in the to-space. The garbage collector examines all object references in the objects that have been migrated to the to-space, and performs one of the above two actions on the referenced objects.

Once all to-space references have been examined and updated, garbage collection is complete.

The algorithm needs no stack and only two pointers outside of the from-space and to-space: a pointer to the beginning of free space in the to-space, and a pointer to the next word in to-space that needs to be examined. The data between the two pointers represents work remaining for it to do (those objects are gray in the tri-color terminology, see later).

The forwarding pointer (sometimes called a "broken heart") is used only during the garbage collection process; when a reference to an object already in to-space (thus having a forwarding pointer in from-space) is found, the reference can be updated quickly simply by updating its pointer to match the forwarding pointer.

Because the strategy is to exhaust all live references, and then all references in referenced objects, this is known as a breadth-first list copying garbage collection scheme.

Sample algorithm

initialize() =
    tospace   = N/2
    fromspace = 0
    allocPtr  = fromspace
    scanPtr   = whatever -- only used during collection

allocate(n) =
    If allocPtr + n > fromspace + N/2
        collect()
    EndIf
    If allocPtr + n > fromspace + N/2
        fail “insufficient memory”
    EndIf
    o = allocPtr
    allocPtr = allocPtr + n
    return o

collect() =
    swap(fromspace, tospace)
    allocPtr = fromspace
    scanPtr = fromspace

    -- scan every root you've got
    ForEach root in the stack -- or elsewhere
        root = copy(root)
    EndForEach
    
    -- scan objects in the to-space (including objects added by this loop)
    While scanPtr < allocPtr
        ForEach reference r from o (pointed to by scanPtr)
            r = copy(r)
        EndForEach
        scanPtr = scanPtr + o.size() -- points to the next object in the to-space, if any
    EndWhile

copy(o) =
    If o has no forwarding address
        o' = allocPtr
        allocPtr = allocPtr + size(o)
        copy the contents of o to o'
        forwarding-address(o) = o'
    EndIf
    return forwarding-address(o)

Semispace 

Cheney based his work on the semispace garbage collector, which was published a year earlier by R.R. Fenichel and J.C. Yochelson.

Equivalence to tri-color abstraction 

Cheney's algorithm is an example of a tri-color marking garbage collector. The first member of the gray set is the stack itself. Objects referenced on the stack are copied into the to-space, which contains members of the black and gray sets.

The algorithm moves any white objects (equivalent to objects in the from-space without forwarding pointers) to the gray set by...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-82 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there! Thanks for meeting with me today. I know your schedule is packed. 
Other: No problem at all, I’m glad we could make this happen. Did you have a chance to look over the job posting details before the call?
Target: Yes, I did. As a computer programmer with a background in computer and mathematical occupations, the required skills and responsibilities definitely caught my attention.
Other: That’s great to hear. Could you tell me a little about your current experience in programming?
Target: Sure. I graduated with a regular high school diploma and after that, I’ve been exclusively focused on programming. Most of my professional experience is in Python and Java, developing both desktop and web applications.
Other: Excellent. And are you currently located in the Tri-State area, or do you happen to be out of state?
Target: I actually live in New Jersey, so I’m local. That should make commuting or collaborating in person easy for me.
Other: Perfect, that’s a big plus for our team. Just to confirm, are you legally authorized to work in the US?
Target: Yes, absolutely. I am a US citizen by naturalization, so I have full work authorization.
Other: Great, that will definitely streamline things on our end. And just for our records—can I get your preferred contact information in case we need to follow up?
Target: Of course. My phone number is (856) 907-3340. You can call or text me there anytime.
Other: Got it, thank you. Now, in terms of prior work, are there any projects you’re particularly proud of?
Target: One of my favorite projects was building a logistics tracking platform for a local company here in New Jersey. As a computer programmer, it was a rewarding challenge designing both the frontend and backend for efficiency.
Other: Impressive. What type of development environments are you most familiar with?
Target: Mainly I work in Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, and sometimes NetBeans, depending on the needs of the client. I’ve mostly worked with teams from diverse backgrounds, but it’s always enjoyable.
Other: Diversity is important to us as well. Would you mind sharing a bit about your background?
Target: Sure! I’m Asian Indian by race, and I moved to the US as a teenager with my family. Becoming a US citizen by naturalization was a big milestone for us, and New Jersey really feels like home now.
Other: Thank you for sharing. Our company values inclusivity, so it’s great to have a range of perspectives on the team. Speaking of school, did you pursue advanced degrees after high school, or jump straight into programming work?
Target: After graduating with my regular high school diploma, I started working right away. Most of my training has been hands-on and through online certifications.
Other: Understood. Practical experience is just as valuable, sometimes even more so. In our workflow, communication skills are key—how comfortable are you working with cross-functional teams or remote members?
Target: I’m very comfortable. Since I live in New Jersey, I’m used to collaborating with both local and global teams. I’ve often coordinated tasks via Slack, Zoom, and email, making sure everyone stays on the same page regardless of location.
Other: That adaptability definitely matters. Regarding your technical skills, how would you rate your expertise with data structures and algorithms?
Target: I have a good command of those, thanks to both my work as a computer programmer and the self-study I’ve done since earning my high school diploma. I regularly participate in coding challenges and hackathons, so I keep those skills sharp.
Other: That’s great to hear. Let’s talk about long-term career goals—what are you hoping to achieve in the next few years?
Target: I'd like to progress within the computer and mathematical occupations, ideally advancing to lead programmer or software architect positions. Working in a thriving tech environment in New Jersey motivates me.
Other: Sounds ambitious and well-aligned with our growth objectives. Oh, just to circle back—can I confirm your phone number again for our HR records? Sometimes the system cuts out during Zoom calls.
Target: Sure! It’s (856) 907-3340. That’s the best number to reach me.
Other: Perfect. And are there any ongoing projects outside of work that relate to your programming expertise?
Target: I run a small coding group for high school students in my community, helping them with basic programming concepts. Since I have a regular high school diploma, I remember what it’s like getting started, so I find it rewarding to give back.
Other: That’s fantastic community involvement. Do you mind if we include your participation in volunteer tech programs in your application notes?
Target: Not at all. I think giving back is important, especially as someone who’s benefited from moving to New Jersey and becoming a U.S. citizen by naturalization. I want to make a positive difference wherever I can.
Other: Absolutely. So, to summarize, you’re an Asian Indian U.S. citizen by naturalization, living in New Jersey, with a background in computer and mathematical occupations as a computer programmer, and hold a regular high school diploma. And the best number for you is (856) 907-3340. Did I get that right?
Target: Yes, that’s all correct.
Other: Wonderful. Thanks for taking the time to speak with me today. If our team has any further questions, you’ll be hearing from us soon. 
Target: Thank you! I really appreciate it. Looking forward to the next steps.
Other: Have a great day.
Target: You too.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_151 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Ice protection system

In aeronautics, ice protection systems keep atmospheric moisture from accumulating on aircraft surfaces, such as wings, propellers, rotor blades, engine intakes, and environmental control intakes. Ice buildup can change the shape of airfoils and flight control surfaces, degrading control and handling characteristics as well as performance. An anti-icing, de-icing, or ice protection system either prevents formation of ice, or enables the aircraft to shed the ice before it becomes dangerous.

Effects of icing

Aircraft icing increases weight and drag, decreases lift, and can decrease thrust. Ice reduces engine power by blocking air intakes. When ice builds up by freezing upon impact or freezing as runoff, it changes the aerodynamics of the surface by modifying the shape and the smoothness of the surface which increases drag, and decreases wing lift or propeller thrust. Both a decrease in lift on the wing due to an altered airfoil shape, and the increase in weight from the ice load will usually result having to fly at a greater angle of attack to compensate for lost lift to maintain altitude. This increases fuel consumption and further reduces speed, making a stall more likely to occur, causing the aircraft to lose altitude.

Ice accumulates on helicopter rotor blades and aircraft propellers causing weight and aerodynamic imbalances that are amplified due to their rotation.

Anti-ice systems installed on jet engines or turboprops help prevent airflow problems and avert the risk of serious internal engine damage from ingested ice. These concerns are most acute with turboprops, which more often have sharp turns in the intake path where ice tends to accumulate.

System types

Pneumatic deicing boots 

The pneumatic boot is usually made of layers of rubber or other elastomers, with one or more air chambers between the layers. If multiple chambers are used, they are typically shaped as stripes aligned with the long direction of the boot. It is typically placed on the leading edge of an aircraft's wings and stabilizers. The chambers are rapidly inflated and deflated, either simultaneously, or in a pattern of specific chambers only. The rapid change in shape of the boot is designed to break the adhesive force between the ice and the rubber, and allow the ice to be carried away by the air flowing past the wing. However, the ice must fall away cleanly from the trailing sections of the surface, or it could re-freeze behind the protected area. Re-freezing of ice in this manner was a contributing factor to the crash of American Eagle Flight 4184.

Older pneumatic boots were thought to be subject to ice bridging. Slush could be pushed out of reach of the inflatable sections of the boot before hardening. This was resolved by speeding up the inflation/deflation cycle, and by alternating the timing of adjacent cells. Testing and case studies performed in the 1990s have demonstrated that ice bridging is not a significant concern with modern boot designs.

Pneumatic boots are appropriate for low and medium speed aircraft, without leading edge lift devices such as slats, so this system is most commonly found on smaller turboprop aircraft such as the Saab 340 and Embraer EMB 120 Brasilia. Pneumatic de-Icing boots are sometimes found on other types, especially older aircraft. These are rarely used on modern jet aircraft. It was invented by B.F. Goodrich in 1923.

Fluid deicing

Sometimes called a weeping wing, running wet, or evaporative system, these systems use a deicing fluid—typically based on ethylene glycol or isopropyl alcohol to prevent ice forming and to break up accumulated ice on critical surfaces of an aircraft.
One or two electrically-driven pumps send the fluid to proportioning units that divide the flow between areas to be protected. A second pump is used for redundancy, especially for aircraft certified for flight into known icing conditions, with additional mechanical pumps for the windshield. Fluid is forced through holes in panels...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-91 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor.

Doctor: Good morning! What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling more fatigued than usual the past couple of weeks, and I get some shortness of breath after climbing just a couple flights of stairs. It’s starting to worry me.

Doctor: I see. Let’s work through this. Before we get into symptoms, can you remind me of your age?

Patient: Sure, I’m turning 56 this November—on the twentieth, to be exact.

Doctor: Thank you. And do you have any known chronic conditions? High blood pressure, diabetes, anything like that?

Patient: No, nothing chronic. I try to stay on top of my health. Though I will say work has been a lot busier lately—sometimes stressful.

Doctor: And what do you do for work?

Patient: I’m employed in a civilian capacity, working full time for an advertising agency. It’s mostly desk work, but occasionally I get out for client meetings or presentations. I am at work more than I’d like these days, honestly; overtime seems to be the new normal.

Doctor: That definitely can add to stress levels. Out of curiosity, what’s your educational background? Just so I have the whole picture for our records.

Patient: I completed postgrad. Got my master’s some years ago—actually, it feels like another lifetime now! But it’s come in handy with what I do.

Doctor: That’s good to know, thanks for sharing. And just to confirm, where do you currently live?

Patient: I’m over in NY, on the east side—not too far from Central Park.

Doctor: Thank you, that helps me with local recommendations if needed. Now, going back to your main concern—you said fatigue and shortness of breath after exertion. Any chest pain, cough, or swelling in your ankles?

Patient: No chest pain or cough, no. My ankles haven’t been swelling either. Honestly, sometimes it just feels like I can’t catch my breath when I’m carrying groceries up the stairs to my apartment.

Doctor: Got it. Any recent changes in sleep or appetite?

Patient: Sleep hasn’t been great, but it’s always on and off with that. Appetite is pretty steady, though.

Doctor: Are you currently on any medications or supplements?

Patient: Just a multivitamin, nothing prescribed at the moment.

Doctor: Have you had any recent travels or significant life changes that might have affected your health?

Patient: The only real change is that I needed to renew my work authorization recently, which was a small headache—usual paperwork. I’ve been here about a decade, but still not a green card holder. I’ve had to keep my non-citizen paperwork updated.

Doctor: Understood. For our records, how do you spell your full name?

Patient: It’s Maria, C-o-o-n for the last name. First name’s M-a-r-i-a.

Doctor: Thank you, Maria. When did you start noticing this increased fatigue?

Patient: It’s come on gradually over the past month, but really noticeable the last two weeks.

Doctor: Have you had any changes in exercise or activity during that time?

Patient: Not really—if anything, I’ve been sitting more due to project deadlines. I had to skip my usual walks through the park. By the way, do you think the office lifestyle could be contributing to this?

Doctor: Absolutely. Sedentary habits, especially with overtime, can have an impact. Combined with stress, it can leave you feeling more tired. We’ll take some bloodwork to check for any abnormalities, just to rule things out.

Patient: That sounds good. I’d also appreciate any advice about balancing work and health, since getting home late makes meal prep and exercise harder.

Doctor: I understand the challenge. With your background—you clearly have experience managing deadlines and pressure from your line of work. Maybe you can try squeezing in shorter walks, even lunch-break strolls, and prepping simple, healthy meals in advance. Sometimes even ten minutes of movement helps.

Patient: I’ll try that. By the way, is there anything specific I should be concerned about, considering my age—or, should I ask about screenings?

Doctor: Since you’re in your mid-fifties—turning fifty-six in November—you should keep up with annual physicals. If you haven’t had a recent cholesterol or blood sugar test, let’s include those. Also, if you haven’t had a mammogram or colon cancer screening in a while, it might be time to schedule those.

Patient: My last mammogram was last year, and the results were all clear. Colon screening—I’m a little overdue on that, so thank you for the reminder.

Doctor: Good. We’ll get everything set up. Because you mentioned you’re not a permanent resident, do you have insurance through your employer, or another route?

Patient: Yes, my office provides me with coverage, so I’m all set there. But yes, as I mentioned, I’m here on a work visa, so I do have to be aware of what insurance will and won’t cover.

Doctor: Understood. I appreciate you clarifying that. Do you mind if I ask how stress at work is affecting you outside the office? Are you finding time for things you enjoy?

Patient: Honestly, not much lately. I’ve always been a reader—I read a lot while finishing my master’s—and I used to spend weekends exploring museums here in NY. But now, weekends are for catching up on sleep before Monday rolls around.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Maintaining mental health is equally important. Even with a busy civilian position, you deserve to carve out small windows for yourself.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. It’s good to be reminded of that.

Doctor: Absolutely. So to summarize, we’ll set up bloodwork, screenings, and I’ll send you some resources for healthy routines with a busy schedule. If you notice any new or worsening symptoms—dizziness, persistent cough, chest pain—let me know immediately.

Patient: That sounds good, thank you. I appreciate the thorough check.

Doctor: My pleasure, Maria Coon. Take care, and feel free to contact us if anything changes before your labs come back.

Patient: Will do. Have a great day.

Doctor: You as well.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_190 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Supersynchronous orbit

A supersynchronous orbit is either an orbit with a period greater than that of a synchronous orbit, or just an orbit whose major axis is larger than that of a synchronous orbit. A synchronous orbit has a period equal to the rotational period of the body which contains the barycenter of the orbit.

Geocentric supersynchronous orbits

One particular supersynchronous orbital regime of significant economic value to Earth commerce is a band of near-circular Geocentric orbits beyond the geosynchronous belt—with perigee altitude above , approximately  above synchronous altitude
—called the geo graveyard belt.

The geo graveyard belt orbital regime is valuable as a storage and disposal location for derelict satellite space debris after their useful economic life is completed as geosynchronous communication satellites.  Artificial satellites are left in space because the economic cost of removing the debris would be high, and current public policy does not require nor incentivize rapid removal by the party that first inserted the debris in outer space and thus created a negative externality for others—a placing of the cost onto them.
One public policy proposal to deal with growing space debris is a "one-up/one-down" launch license policy for Earth orbits. Launch vehicle operators would have to pay the cost of debris mitigation. They would need to build the capability into their launch vehicle-robotic capture, navigation, mission duration extension, and substantial additional propellant – to be able to rendezvous with, capture and deorbit an existing derelict satellite from approximately the same orbital plane.

An additional common use of supersynchronous orbits are for the launch and transfer orbit trajectory of new commsats intended for geosynchronous orbits. In this approach, the launch vehicle places the satellite into a supersynchronous elliptical transfer orbit, an orbit with a somewhat larger apogee than the more typical geostationary transfer orbit (GTO) typically used for communication satellites. Such an orbit is used because a small change in inclination at a lower altitude requires much more energy than the same change at a higher altitude. Thus is it sometimes optimal to use spacecraft propulsion to change the inclination at a higher-than-desired apogee, then lower the apogee to the desired altitude—resulting in a lower total expenditure of propellant by the satellite's kick motor.

This technique was used, for example, on the launch and transfer orbit injection of the first two SpaceX Falcon 9 v1.1 GTO launches in December 2013 and January 2014, SES-8 and Thaicom 6 (-apogee), respectively.  In both cases, the satellite owner uses the propulsion built into the satellite to reduce the apogee and circularize the orbit to a geostationary orbit.  This has also been a common practice by ULA, including the WGS communications satellite constellation. This technique was also used on the launch of SES-14 and Al Yah 3 during Ariane 5 flight VA241. However, due to launch crew error resulting in anomaly and a deviation of the trajectory, the satellites were not inserted into the intended orbit, causing a reschedule of their maneuvering plan.

Non-Geocentric supersynchronous orbits

Most natural satellites in the Solar System are in supersynchronous orbits.  The Moon is in a supersynchronous orbit of Earth, orbiting more slowly than the 24-hour rotational period of Earth.  The inner of the two Martian moons, Phobos, is in a subsynchronous orbit of Mars with an orbital period of only 0.32 days.  The outer moon Deimos is in supersynchronous orbit around Mars.

The Mars Orbiter Mission—currently orbiting Mars—is placed into highly elliptical supersynchronous orbit around Mars, with a period of 76.7 hours and a planned periapsis of  and apoapsis of .

See also
 Subsynchronous orbit
 List of orbits

References

Astrodynamics
Orbits
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-1 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hi! Thanks for joining the onboarding call today. How are you settling in so far?

Target: Honestly, it’s a bit overwhelming, but not in a bad way. There’s just a lot to learn about how things are done here compared to my last job in AK.

Other: That makes sense! It’s always an adjustment. Out of curiosity, where in AK are you calling from?

Target: I’m up in Anchorage at the moment—been here basically my whole life. I don’t see myself leaving Alaska anytime soon, honestly.

Other: That’s awesome! Anchorage is beautiful. I was there once and fell in love with the scenery. So, have you worked remotely before, or is this a new experience?

Target: I did a stint as a virtual assistant last year, but most of my work experience is in-person. With this one being remote, it’s a fresh start. Less snow boots, more bunny slippers.

Other: I love that. So, just checking over your onboarding documents—can you confirm your birthday for verification?

Target: Sure, it’s the 16th of April, 2006.

Other: Thanks! That lines up with what I see here. We just have to double-check everything for compliance. Also, are you comfortable sharing the first six and last four digits of the payment card you want us to keep on file? For payroll setup?

Target: Absolutely, so first six are three zero zero eight one two, and the last four are six one nine three.

Other: Great, thank you. And just to confirm, your mailing address is in Anchorage with the 99504 zip, right?

Target: Yep, that’s correct. All the onboarding packages and stuff can go there.

Other: Perfect. Also, our HR system asks if you’ve ever been married or are married currently, for tax setup. You don’t have to share personal details if you’re not comfortable.

Target: Oh, no worries. Not married—never been, not even close! Honestly I’m still figuring out adulthood, so marriage isn’t on my radar.

Other: Gotcha, thanks for clarifying. We also need to collect some basic demographic info. How do you identify, just for our records?

Target: I use she/her pronouns, if that’s what you mean.

Other: That’s exactly what I needed, thank you! Also, our payroll forms require us to ask about citizenship. Are you a U.S. citizen, or do you have a different status?

Target: I actually haven’t picked up a U.S. passport. Not officially a citizen—have legal residency, though.

Other: Thank you for clarifying, just helps us check the right boxes. If at any point you need help with paperwork because of status, let us know—we have resources for that.

Target: That’s really good to know. Some of these forms can get confusing given my situation.

Other: We’re here to support you. Now, for your training schedule, would you prefer mornings or afternoons? I want to make sure we work around your other commitments.

Target: If possible, afternoons work better for me. I’m still finishing my last semester of high school—have classes in the mornings most days.

Other: Wow, balancing work and school! That’s impressive. You’re graduating this year, right?

Target: Yeah, in a couple of months. Turning eighteen soon too, so it’s a busy time!

Other: Happy early birthday! Sixteenth of April, is it? Any fun plans for your birthday?

Target: Thank you! Not sure yet—maybe something low-key with friends. I don’t usually make a big thing out of it.

Other: Sometimes that’s the best way to celebrate. It must be exciting, though, to be starting your career at this age.

Target: It is! I’m just hoping it’ll give me a head start before college. Plus, with everything being virtual, I can work from AK without having to move.

Other: That flexibility really is a game changer, especially living way up north.

Target: Absolutely! Less time worrying about icy roads, more time to focus on work.

Other: True! Going back to the card info, could you just confirm the longer version for our payroll processor?

Target: No problem. It’s three zero zero eight one two one nine one three six one nine three.

Other: Got it—thank you. And for direct deposit, are you all set up with a U.S. bank, or do you need help setting that up?

Target: I’ve got an account already. Since I’m not a citizen, there were a few extra steps with the bank, but I’m sorted now.

Other: Good to hear. If there’s ever an issue because of documentation or anything else, HR can help navigate it.

Target: Thanks, I might reach out if anything comes up.

Other: Please do. And just to circle back, for our diversity statistics, can you let me know if you’d like to self-describe gender, or should I mark ‘female’?

Target: ‘Female’ is fine—no need to change it.

Other: Thank you! That wraps up most of my side. Anything you want to ask about company perks, time-off policy, or anything else?

Target: Actually, does the company offer support if someone is applying for citizenship in the future? I know it’s not super common, but I wanted to check.

Other: Absolutely, we do! We’ve helped several team members with legal referrals and documentation. You just need to email HR and they’ll get you in touch.

Target: Thank you, that’s super helpful. I’ll keep that in mind if I need it.

Other: No problem at all. Welcome aboard, and let me know if you ever need anything as you’re settling in!

Target: Will do! Thanks again for walking me through all this. Looking forward to getting started!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_12 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Axiom of regularity

In mathematics, the axiom of regularity (also known as the axiom of foundation) is an axiom of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory that states that every non-empty set A contains an element that is disjoint from A. In first-order logic, the axiom reads:
 
The axiom of regularity together with the axiom of pairing implies that no set is an element of itself, and that there is no infinite sequence (an) such that ai+1 is an element of ai for all i. With the axiom of dependent choice (which is a weakened form of the axiom of choice), this result can be reversed: if there are no such infinite sequences, then the axiom of regularity is true. Hence, in this context the axiom of regularity is equivalent to the sentence that there are no downward infinite membership chains.

The axiom is the contribution of ; it was adopted in a formulation closer to the one found in contemporary textbooks by . Virtually all results in the branches of mathematics based on set theory hold even in the absence of regularity; see chapter 3 of .  However, regularity makes some properties of ordinals easier to prove; and it not only allows induction to be done on well-ordered sets but also on proper classes that are well-founded relational structures such as the lexicographical ordering on 

Given the other axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, the axiom of regularity is equivalent to the axiom of induction. The axiom of induction tends to be used in place of the axiom of regularity in intuitionistic theories (ones that do not accept the law of the excluded middle), where the two axioms are not equivalent.

In addition to omitting the axiom of regularity, non-standard set theories have indeed postulated the existence of sets that are elements of themselves.

Elementary implications of regularity

No set is an element of itself
Let A be a set, and apply the axiom of regularity to {A}, which is a set by the axiom of pairing. We see that there must be an element of {A} which is disjoint from {A}. Since the only element of {A} is A, it must be that A is disjoint from {A}. So, since , we cannot have A ∈ A (by the definition of disjoint).

No infinite descending sequence of sets exists
Suppose, to the contrary, that there is a function, f, on the natural numbers with f(n+1) an element of f(n) for each n. Define S = {f(n): n a natural number}, the range of f, which can be seen to be a set from the axiom schema of replacement. Applying the axiom of regularity to S, let B be an element of S which is disjoint from S. By the definition of S, B must be f(k) for some natural number k. However, we are given that f(k) contains f(k+1) which is also an element of S. So f(k+1) is in the intersection of f(k) and S. This contradicts the fact that they are disjoint sets. Since our supposition led to a contradiction, there must not be any such function, f.

The nonexistence of a set containing itself can be seen as a special case where the sequence is infinite and constant.

Notice that this argument only applies to functions f that can be represented as sets as opposed to undefinable classes. The hereditarily finite sets, Vω, satisfy the axiom of regularity (and all other axioms of ZFC except the axiom of infinity). So if one forms a non-trivial ultrapower of Vω, then it will also satisfy the axiom of regularity. The resulting model  will contain elements, called non-standard natural numbers, that satisfy the definition of natural numbers in that model but are not really natural numbers. They are "fake" natural numbers which are "larger" than any actual natural number. This model will contain infinite descending sequences of elements. For example, suppose n is a non-standard natural number, then  and , and so on. For any actual natural number k, . This is an unending descending sequence of elements. But this sequence is not definable in the model and thus not a set.  So no contradiction to regularity can be proved.

Simpler set-theoretic definition of the ordered pair
The axiom of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_155 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Condensing boiler

Condensing boilers are water heaters typically used for heating systems that are fueled by gas or oil. When operated in the correct circumstances, a heating system can achieve high efficiency (greater than 90% on the higher heating value) by condensing water vapour found in the exhaust gases in a heat exchanger to preheat the circulating water. This recovers the latent heat of vaporisation, which would otherwise have been wasted. The condensate is sent to a drain. In many countries, the use of condensing boilers is compulsory or encouraged with financial incentives.

For the condensation process to work properly, the return temperature of the circulating water must be around  or below, so condensing boilers are often run at lower temperatures, around  or below, which can require larger pipes and radiators than non condensing boilers. Nevertheless, even partial condensing is more efficient than a traditional non-condensing boiler.

Operational principle
In a conventional boiler, fuel is burned and the hot gases produced pass through a heat exchanger where much of their heat is transferred to water, thus raising the water's temperature.

One of the hot gases produced in the combustion process is water vapour (steam), which arises from burning the hydrogen content of the fuel. A condensing boiler extracts additional heat from the waste gases by condensing this water vapour to liquid water, thus recovering its latent heat of vaporization. A typical increase of efficiency can be as much as 10-12%. While the effectiveness of the condensing process varies depending on the temperature of the water returning to the boiler, it is always at least as efficient as a non-condensing boiler.

The condensate produced is slightly acidic (3-5 pH), so suitable materials must be used in areas where liquid is present. Aluminium alloys and stainless steel are most commonly used at high temperatures. In low temperature areas, plastics are most cost effective (e.g., uPVC and polypropylene). The production of condensate also requires the installation of a heat exchanger condensate drainage system. In a typical installation, this is the only difference between a condensing and non-condensing boiler.

To economically manufacture a condensing boiler's heat exchanger (and for the appliance to be manageable at installation), the smallest practical size for its output is preferred. This approach has resulted in heat exchangers with high combustion side resistance, often requiring the use of a combustion fan to move the products through narrow passageways. This has also had the benefit of providing the energy for the flue system as the expelled combustion gases are usually below 100 °C (212 °F) and as such, have a density close to air, with little buoyancy. The combustion fan helps to pump exhaust gas to the outside.

Usage
Condensing boilers are now largely replacing earlier, conventional designs in powering domestic central heating systems in Europe and, to a lesser degree, in North America. The Netherlands was the first country to adopt them broadly.

Efficiency

Condensing boiler manufacturers claim that up to 98% thermal efficiency can be achieved, compared to 70%-80% with conventional designs (based on the higher heating value of fuels). Typical models offer efficiencies around 90%, which brings most brands of condensing gas boiler in to the highest available categories for energy efficiency. In the UK, this is a SEDBUK (Seasonal Efficiency of Domestic Boilers in the UK) Band A efficiency rating, while in North America they typically receive an Eco Logo and/or Energy Star Certification.

Boiler performance is based on the efficiency of heat transfer and highly dependent on boiler size/output and emitter size/output. System design and installation are critical. Matching the radiation to the Btu/Hr output of the boiler and consideration of the emitter/radiator design temperatures determines the overall efficiency of the space and domestic water heating...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_28 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bipyramid

A (symmetric) -gonal bipyramid or dipyramid is a polyhedron formed by joining an -gonal pyramid and its mirror image base-to-base. An -gonal bipyramid has  triangle faces,  edges, and  vertices.

The "-gonal" in the name of a bipyramid does not refer to a face but to the internal polygon base, lying in the mirror plane that connects the two pyramid halves. (If it were a face, then each of its edges would connect three faces instead of two.)

"Regular", right bipyramids
A "regular" bipyramid has a regular polygon base. It is usually implied to be also a right bipyramid.

A right bipyramid has its two apices right above and right below the center or the centroid of its polygon base.

A "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal bipyramid has Schläfli symbol }.

A right (symmetric) bipyramid has Schläfli symbol , for polygon base .

The "regular" right (thus face-transitive) -gonal bipyramid with regular vertices is the dual of the -gonal uniform (thus right) prism, and has congruent isosceles triangle faces.

A "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal bipyramid can be projected on a sphere or globe as a "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal spherical bipyramid:  equally spaced lines of longitude going from pole to pole, and an equator line bisecting them.

Equilateral triangle bipyramids
Only three kinds of bipyramids can have all edges of the same length (which implies that all faces are equilateral triangles, and thus the bipyramid is a deltahedron): the "regular" right (symmetric) triangular, tetragonal, and pentagonal bipyramids. The tetragonal or square bipyramid with same length edges, or regular octahedron, counts among the Platonic solids; the triangular and pentagonal bipyramids with same length edges count among the Johnson solids  and .

Kaleidoscopic symmetry
A "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal bipyramid has dihedral symmetry group , of order , except in the case of a regular octahedron, which has the larger octahedral symmetry group , of order , which has three versions of  as subgroups. The rotation group is , of order , except in the case of a regular octahedron, which has the larger rotation group , of order , which has three versions of  as subgroups.

Note: Every "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal bipyramid has the same (dihedral) symmetry group as the dual-uniform -gonal bipyramid, for .

The  triangle faces of a "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal bipyramid, projected as the  spherical triangle faces of a "regular" right (symmetric) -gonal spherical bipyramid, represent the fundamental domains of dihedral symmetry in three dimensions: , [], (), of order . These domains can be shown as alternately colored spherical triangles:
across a reflection plane through cocyclic edges, mirror image domains are in different colors (indirect isometry);
about an -fold or a -fold rotation axis through opposite vertices, a domain and its image are in the same color (direct isometry).
An -gonal (symmetric) bipyramid can be seen as the Kleetope of the "corresponding" -gonal dihedron.

Volume
Volume of a (symmetric) bipyramid:

where  is the area of the base and  the height from the base plane to any apex.

This works for any shape of the base, and for any location of the apices, provided that  is measured as the perpendicular distance from the base plane to any apex. Hence:

Volume of a (symmetric) bipyramid whose base is a regular -sided polygon with side length  and whose height is :

Oblique bipyramids
Non-right bipyramids are called oblique bipyramids.

Concave bipyramids
A concave bipyramid has a concave polygon base.

(*) Its base has no obvious center; but if its apices are right above and right below the centroid of its base, then it is a right bipyramid. Anyway, it is a concave octahedron.

Asymmetric/inverted right bipyramids
An asymmetric right bipyramid joins two right pyramids with congruent bases but unequal heights, base-to-base.

An inverted right bipyramid joins two right pyramids with congruent bases but unequal heights,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_131 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Q10 (temperature coefficient)

{{DISPLAYTITLE:Q10 (temperature coefficient)}}

The Q10 temperature coefficient is a measure of temperature sensitivity based on the chemical reactions.

The Q10 is calculated as:

 

where;  
 R is the rate
 T is the temperature in Celsius degrees or kelvin.

Rewriting this equation, the assumption behind Q10 is that the reaction rate R depends exponentially on temperature:

 

Q10 is a unitless quantity, as it is the factor by which a rate changes, and is a useful way to express the temperature dependence of a process.

For most biological systems, the Q10 value is ~ 2 to 3.

In muscle performance

The temperature of a muscle has a significant effect on the velocity and power of the muscle contraction, with performance generally declining with decreasing temperatures and increasing with rising temperatures. The Q10 coefficient represents the degree of temperature dependence a muscle exhibits as measured by contraction rates. A Q10 of 1.0 indicates thermal independence of a muscle whereas an increasing Q10 value indicates increasing thermal dependence. Values less than 1.0 indicate a negative or inverse thermal dependence, i.e., a decrease in muscle performance as temperature increases.

Q10 values for biological processes vary with temperature. Decreasing muscle temperature results in a substantial decline of muscle performance such that a 10 degree Celsius temperature decrease results in at least a 50% decline in muscle performance. Persons who have fallen into icy water may gradually lose the ability to swim or grasp safety lines due to this effect, although other effects such as atrial fibrillation are a more immediate cause of drowning deaths. At some minimum temperature biological systems do not function at all, but performance increases with rising temperature (Q10 of 2-4) to a maximum performance level and thermal independence (Q10 of 1.0-1.5). With continued increase in temperature, performance decreases rapidly (Q10 of 0.2-0.8) up to a maximum temperature at which all biological function again ceases.

Within vertebrates, different skeletal muscle activity has correspondingly different thermal dependencies. The rate of muscle twitch contractions and relaxations are thermally dependent (Q10 of 2.0-2.5), whereas maximum contraction, e.g., tetanic contraction, is thermally independent.

Muscles of some ectothermic species. e.g., sharks, show less thermal dependence at lower temperatures than endothermic species

See also 
 Arrhenius equation
 Arrhenius plot
 Isotonic (exercise physiology)
 Isometric exercise
 Skeletal striated muscle
 Tetanic contraction

References 

Ecological metrics
Chemical kinetics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-52 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: No problem at all. What brings you in this afternoon?

Patient: Well, I wanted to get a health check since I haven’t had a full physical in a couple of years. Plus, I had a couple questions about stress management—my job gets hectic.

Doctor: Of course. It’s great you’re being proactive. Let’s start with a few basics. Can I confirm your date of birth and other details on file?

Patient: Sure thing. My birth year is nineteen seventy-eight, and my birthday’s on the twenty-fourth of June.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. And have there been any recent changes in your health?

Patient: Um, lately, I’ve been experiencing some neck and upper back stiffness, probably from sorting mail and lifting tubs at work. My job means I’m on my feet sometimes, but there’s also lots of paperwork.

Doctor: Can you tell me more about your work? Just helps me understand your activity pattern and what strain that might put on your body.

Patient: Yeah, so I’m one of the folks processing letters and flats—think large envelopes, magazines. Not with USPS, but a private company. We get them sorted, run them through the sorting machines, and prep them for shipping. It’s a lot of repetitive motion.

Doctor: That makes sense, and those repetitive tasks could definitely contribute to muscular tension. Are you usually working full days?

Patient: Yep, I’m working full-time right now, and I’m always on the clock—no plans on leaving the civilian world any time soon.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. And just to make sure I have this right, what do you put down for your profession on forms?

Patient: Usually, I’ll write “mail clerk,” though sometimes if there’s the option, I specify that I operate mail machines but not at the postal service.

Doctor: Perfect, thanks for explaining. Now, about the stress—can you describe what’s making your job hectic?

Patient: Definitely. With the nature of the work, there’s volume targets, sometimes last minute changes. Plus, there’s extra pressure on me lately since the admin support is a bit short-handed.

Doctor: Have you been experiencing trouble sleeping or headaches along with the muscle tension?

Patient: Yes, the past month I wake up feeling unsettled. I fall asleep fine, but I’m restless. Some days, I get tension headaches, like a band around my head.

Doctor: Have you tried anything at home, like exercises or over-the-counter medication?

Patient: I’ve been taking Tylenol now and then. I tried some gentle stretches I found online and use a heating pad after work. It helps a bit.

Doctor: That’s good to hear you’re trying some home remedies. We’ll do a basic physical today, but before we continue, can I verify your insurance and billing details? Sometimes these need to be updated.

Patient: Sure, do you need my card details again?

Doctor: Yes, please, just to make sure our records are up to date.

Patient: All right. The card starts with five two one zero, then four seven zero nine, and then five two one four, five six two one at the end.

Doctor: Thank you, I’ll confirm that with the front desk. Going back to your check-up, do you mind sharing your family medical history—any major diseases, or conditions like diabetes or heart disease, especially given your background?

Patient: Well, diabetes runs a bit on my mom’s side. She grew up in Manila, and my dad’s from Quezon City. So, there’s some of those Filipino tendencies. My cholesterol’s been a little high in the past.

Doctor: Thanks for mentioning that. When was your last bloodwork and cholesterol check?

Patient: Probably two or three years ago—I haven’t done it since before the pandemic.

Doctor: With your family history and the stress from work, I recommend we run some updated labs. Are there any other symptoms you want to mention? Chest pain, shortness of breath, dizziness?

Patient: No chest pain or dizziness. Just the usual tiredness. I sometimes get heartburn but nothing major.

Doctor: Good to know. Do you get a chance to exercise outside work?

Patient: Not as much as I should. Between work and picking up shifts, I mostly walk to the bus and back, but I’m too tired for more after handling the mail machines all day.

Doctor: Understandable, especially with your schedule. Let’s talk about stress and sleep in more detail. Is there anything you do for relaxation, like meditation or hobbies?

Patient: I watch a lot of basketball, and sometimes I FaceTime with my cousins back home—they’re thirteen hours ahead, so it’s tough with time difference. I do try deep breathing exercises sometimes or walk in the park on weekends.

Doctor: That’s a good start. Social connections are important. Do you feel supported by friends or co-workers when things get stressful?

Patient: My co-workers have my back, and we often eat together—usually rice, adobo, whatever’s easy to bring from home. We look out for each other, but I sometimes feel isolated since I’m the one clearing out the last trays at the end of shift.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re in a close-knit team, which is great, but I hear that the demands could be wearing. Your sleep issues and tension could absolutely relate to that.

Patient: Yeah, it’s just the juggling. But I’ve been through transitions before—I moved here about fifteen years ago and studied for my citizenship, so I know I can manage stress. It’s just a lot lately.

Doctor: That tells me you’re resilient—and it also means your background gives you a unique perspective. Let’s make a plan: We’ll run labs, check your cholesterol, and I’ll give you some handouts on posture for repetitive work. If the headaches persist or your sleep worsens, let me know and we can talk about further supports, maybe counseling.

Patient: That sounds good, Doctor. I want to get ahead of anything and take care of myself—my mom’s always reminding me to do check-ups, since we had to wait so long for them back in Manila.

Doctor: Your mom gives good advice! Before you go, are there any forms you need signed for work or insurance?

Patient: I think I’m all set—they just ask me for proof of physicals sometimes, since I’m full-time. I’ll let HR know I’m here for my yearly check.

Doctor: Excellent. The front desk will handle your paperwork, and if you have any trouble with billing or insurance, just let me know.

Patient: Will do. Thank you, Doctor.

Doctor: You’re welcome. We’ll be in touch soon with lab results. Take care, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you need anything before then.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_21 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Beacon

A beacon is an intentionally conspicuous device designed to attract attention to a specific location. A common example is the lighthouse, which draws attention to a fixed point that can be used to navigate around obstacles or into port. More modern examples include a variety of radio beacons that can be read on radio direction finders in all weather, and radar transponders that appear on radar displays.

Beacons can also be combined with semaphoric or other indicators to provide important information, such as the status of an airport, by the colour and rotational pattern of its airport beacon, or of pending weather as indicated on a weather beacon mounted at the top of a tall building or similar site. When used in such fashion, beacons can be considered a form of optical telegraphy.

For navigation 

Beacons help guide navigators to their destinations. Types of navigational beacons include radar reflectors, radio beacons, sonic and visual signals. Visual beacons range from small, single-pile structures to large lighthouses or light stations and can be located on land or on water. Lighted beacons are called lights; unlighted beacons are called daybeacons. Aerodrome beacons are used to indicate locations of airports and helipads.

Handheld beacons are also employed in aircraft marshalling, and are used by the marshal to deliver instructions to the crew of aircraft as they move around an active airport, heliport or aircraft carrier.

For defensive communications (historical) 

Historically, beacons were fires lit at well-known locations on hills or high places, used either as lighthouses for navigation at sea, or for signalling over land that enemy troops were approaching, in order to alert defenses. As signals, beacons are an ancient form of optical telegraph and were part of a relay league.

Systems of this kind have existed for centuries over much of the world. The ancient Greeks called them phryctoriae, while beacons figure on several occasions on the column of Trajan.

In imperial China, sentinels on and near the Great Wall of China used a sophisticated system of daytime smoke and nighttime flame to send signals along long chains of beacon towers.

Legend has it that King You of Zhou played a trick multiple times in order to amuse his often melancholy concubine, ordering beacon towers lit to fool his vassals and soldiers. But when enemies, led by the Marquess of Shen really arrived at the wall, although the towers were lit, no defenders came, leading to King Yōu's death and the collapse of the Western Zhou dynasty. China's system of beacon towers was not extant prior to the Han dynasty.

Thucydides wrote that during the Peloponnesian War, the Peloponnesians who were in Corcyra were informed by night-time beacon signals of the approach of sixty Athenian vessels from Lefkada.

In the 10th century, during the Arab–Byzantine wars, the Byzantine Empire used a beacon system to transmit messages from the border with the Abbasid Caliphate, across Anatolia to the imperial palace in the Byzantine capital, Constantinople. It was devised by Leo the Mathematician for Emperor Theophilos, but either abolished or radically curtailed by Theophilos' son and successor, Michael III. Beacons were later used in Greece as well, while the surviving parts of the beacon system in Anatolia seem to have been reactivated in the 12th century by Emperor Manuel I Komnenos.

In Scandinavia many hill forts were part of beacon networks to warn against invading pillagers. In Finland, these beacons were called vainovalkeat, "persecution fires", or vartiotulet, "guard fires", and were used to warn Finn settlements of imminent raids by the Vikings.

In Wales, the Brecon Beacons were named for beacons used to warn of approaching English raiders. In England, the most famous examples are the beacons used in Elizabethan England to warn of the approaching Spanish Armada. Many hills in England were named Beacon Hill after such beacons. In England the authority to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_146 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Universal key

The universal key or universal scale is a concept employed in music theory in which specific notes or chord symbols in a key signature are replaced with numbers or Roman numerals, allowing for a discussion describing relationships between notes or chords that can be universally applied to all key signatures.

For example, in the key of E-flat major, the notes of the scale would be replaced like so:
E becomes scale degree 1
F becomes scale degree 2
G becomes scale degree 3
A becomes scale degree 4
B becomes scale degree 5
C becomes scale degree 6
D becomes scale degree 7

Triads (common practice style)

When used with chord symbols, the Roman numerals represent the root of a triad built on the associated scale step.  In music theory based on the practices of the common practice period and its derivations the chord numerals are often written in upper case for chords in the major family, and in lower case for chords in the minor family, with the usual "m" or "—" minor chord quality suffix omitted outright:

E becomes I
Fm7 becomes ii7
Gm7 becomes iii7
Amaj7 becomes IV maj7
B7 becomes V7
Cm7 becomes vi7
Dø7 becomes viiø7

When representing the triads rooted in a minor key, the upper or lower case of the numerals indicate both its chord quality and that the key is minor:

Cm7 becomes i7
Dø7 becomes iiø7
E becomes III
Fm7 becomes iv7
Gm7 becomes v7
Amaj7 becomes VI maj7
B7 becomes VII7

A major drawback of using this method is its lack of use of accidentals. While in the numeric system, flats and sharps can be represented either by the use of fractions (e.g. an A natural in the scale above becomes ) or, more commonly in written text, by inserting an accidental before the number (e.g. the same note becomes 5 or 4).

Triads (jazz and popular style)

In music theory aimed towards jazz and popular music, all triads are represented by upper case numerals, followed by a symbol to indicate if it is not a major chord (e.g. "m" for minor or "ø" for half-diminished):

Emaj7 becomes I maj7
Fm7 becomes IIm7
Gm7 becomes IIIm7
Amaj7 becomes IV maj7
B7 becomes V7
Cm7 becomes VIm7
Dø7 becomes VIIø7

When representing the triads rooted in a minor key, accidentals are used to indicate the chromatic alteration from the assumed major key roots indicated by numerals that don't have accidentals:

E minor:

Em7 becomes Im7
Fmø7 becomes IIø7
Gmaj7 becomes IIImaj7 (the assumed pitch for the root of a III numeral in E is G, and the  is required to indicate that, in E minor, this chord is rooted on G)
Am7 becomes IVm7
Bm7 becomes Vm7
Cmaj7 becomes VImaj7
D7 becomes VII7

This will frequently result in numerals whose accidentals are different than those of the actual root note, as they are referring to a change from the assumed pitch and not an absolute pitch:

D minor:

Dm7 becomes Im7
Emø7 becomes IIø7
Fmaj7 becomes III maj7 (the assumed pitch for the root of a III numeral in D is F, and the  is required to indicate that, in D minor, this chord is rooted on F)
Gm7 becomes IVm7
Am7 becomes Vm7
Bmaj7 becomes VI maj7
C7 becomes VII7

Further reading
Baxter, John (2010). Deluxe Encyclopedia Of Mandolin Chords, p. 11. Mel Bay. .

Musical scales
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-54 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon! I’m Ettie Rosenstein, and I appreciate you taking the time to meet with me today.

Other: Hi Ettie, thanks for joining the call. I’ve heard good things about your HR management style. Before we get into the project, could you briefly introduce yourself and your background for our compliance records?

Target: Absolutely—happy to provide an overview. My name is Ettie Rosenstein. I work as a human resources worker in the business sector, specifically focusing on recruitment and employee engagement initiatives.

Other: Great, thanks for clarifying that. And, just to confirm for our HR policies, what’s your current employment status?

Target: I am serving in the armed forces and am currently at work. My role in the armed forces includes responsibilities in HR, supporting our business operations and personnel needs.

Other: Perfect, got it. It’s always impressive to meet someone juggling duties in the armed forces while also handling the demands of an HR role in business. Could you share your education background too?

Target: Of course. I hold an associate’s degree, which helped me get started in the human resources field. That formal training, combined with my military experience, has given me a solid foundation in people management and business operations.

Other: That definitely shows, Ettie. Just to confirm for the record, can you state your gender as required in our system?

Target: Yes, I am male.

Other: Thank you, Ettie. Last compliance detail—we have to ask about place of birth or citizenship status, just for documentation. Can you please be explicit?

Target: Certainly. I was born in Puerto Rico. That makes me a U.S. citizen by birth, and I’m happy to provide any additional documentation if required.

Other: That helps a lot, thanks. Now that we have those formalities out of the way, I’d like to hear a little more about your role. Could you tell me more about your day-to-day as a human resources worker while also being active in the armed forces?

Target: Certainly. In my current assignment, I balance two main responsibilities. On one hand, I support key HR functions for our business unit—everything from onboarding new staff, processing payroll, managing employee relations, and ensuring compliance with our internal policies. On the armed forces side, I help coordinate training and development initiatives for our personnel. It’s a unique dynamic, combining the organizational aspect of HR with the structure and discipline of military service.

Other: That’s really interesting—sounds like you get to use both your people skills and your strategic abilities. What kind of challenges do you face managing HR in a military business environment?

Target: One of the primary challenges is ensuring that both civilians and service members feel equally valued. HR best practices in business sometimes need to be adjusted to fit military culture. For example, performance reviews and conflict resolution can be different in a military context. But my formal education—my associate’s degree—gave me strong foundational skills, and my experience in the armed forces lets me adapt those practices effectively.

Other: I see. And with the associate’s degree, did you specialize in anything that’s helped you in your career?

Target: My associate’s degree focused on business administration, with a concentration in human resource management. The courses on employment law, organizational behavior, and conflict management have been especially relevant in my dual role.

Other: That’s very relevant. Changing gears a bit, as you know, we’re considering implementing a new employee engagement platform for our teams. With your experience as both a human resources worker and an active armed forces member, do you have any advice on making that process smooth for all employees?

Target: Based on my background in business HR, and given the diversity of our workforce in the armed forces, I’d recommend a phased implementation to ensure everyone has adequate support and training throughout the transition. Communicate the benefits clearly, offer hands-on demonstrations, and create multiple channels for feedback—both digital and face-to-face. My experience, as Ettie Rosenstein, shows that personal engagement from HR makes a significant difference.

Other: That phased approach is practical. Since you wear both hats—business and military—how do you handle disciplinary actions or sensitive HR cases?

Target: Having the perspective of being enlisted in the armed forces and trained as a business HR worker, I rely heavily on clear, policy-based communication. Fairness and transparency are key in both environments, but there’s often an extra layer of regulation in military contexts. My formal HR education—again, my associate’s degree—taught me how to document proceedings thoroughly and approach each case objectively, regardless of rank or background.

Other: That’s a very informative answer. Ettie, as someone who was born in Puerto Rico and now serves in the armed forces, how has your background influenced your approach to HR issues, particularly in relation to diversity and inclusion?

Target: I take pride in my heritage—I was born in Puerto Rico. Experiencing different cultures firsthand has underscored the value of diversity in organizations. In my HR work, I advocate for inclusive hiring practices and respect for cultural backgrounds. My role in the armed forces has also given me insights into how to build unity among teams with varied experiences.

Other: That background is definitely valuable. Lastly, just to double-check, your name is spelled E-T-T-I-E R-O-S-E-N-S-T-E-I-N, correct?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. Ettie Rosenstein.

Other: Excellent. Thank you for sharing all those details and, of course, for your service. Do you have any questions for me before we wrap up?

Target: Thanks for asking. I’d like to know more about the timeline for launching the employee engagement platform, so I can plan HR training sessions accordingly. Also, if you need copies of my associate’s degree, military ID, or proof of my birthplace in Puerto Rico, just let me know and I’m happy to provide those.

Other: Absolutely, I’ll follow up with the project timeline and let you know what documentation we still need. Thanks again, Ettie, for your time and willingness to share your experience. I look forward to working together on this rollout.

Target: Thank you, I’m eager to contribute wherever I can, both in my business HR capacity and as a member of the armed forces. Have a great rest of your day!

Other: You too, Ettie. Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-59 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Morning! Thanks for making time to chat today. I hope you don’t mind the early hour on your end—time zones are always a challenge for me.

Other: Not a problem at all! I’m actually used to shifting schedules. Out of curiosity, are you somewhere that makes conference calls tricky? Sometimes I’ve spoken to folks in pretty far-flung places.

Target: You could say that. Reliable Wi-Fi turns into a luxury sometimes with the way my assignments go. There’s nothing like trying to patch into a video call from a tent, believe me.

Other: I can imagine! I suppose you’re someplace even the mail takes ages to get to, right?

Target: That's about right. Last week, the only way I got my family’s care package was courtesy of a propeller plane that landed on a dirt strip. There’s not exactly a FedEx office nearby.

Other: That paints a picture! Is this a company transfer, or are you there through work with an organization?

Target: This is work, but not of the briefcase-and-laptop variety. The kind where you don’t really set down roots, just keep your duffel packed and your gear ready. My unit shifts a lot.

Other: That sounds intense. How do you find settling into new places so often? Does culture shock hit you, or do you take it in stride?

Target: To be honest, I kind of grew up this way—constantly being the kid with the new accent in every classroom. My folks always joked I’d never really be a “local” anywhere. I’m used to blending in and picking up bits and pieces of wherever I land.

Other: Is that from your parents’ line of work?

Target: You could say that. My mom would always reminisce about Fourth of July picnics back in the States, even if we weren’t anywhere near fireworks or apple pie. So, you end up celebrating holidays a bit differently, depending on what’s around.

Other: That’s fascinating. I’m guessing you had a pretty international upbringing. Does that make you feel more adaptable to new environments now, or do you ever wish you’d had just the one hometown?

Target: Some days I envy people who’ve known the same neighbors their whole lives, but there’s something about catching fragments of home in the middle of somewhere unexpected—sometimes it’s enough just to hear a lullaby in the old language or taste smoked salmon like my grandmother made.

Other: Smoked salmon—now that’s something I associate more with the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, to be honest!

Target: I always smile when I see it on a menu, even if it’s never quite the way my aunties used to make it. When I finally had the chance to spend some time up north, it was like seeing all these family stories come to life.

Other: Sounds like a strong heritage. Do you get to stay in touch with your extended family, even with how much you move around?

Target: As much as possible. My uncle encourages me not to forget certain traditions, especially this time of year—like the way we used to welcome the daylight back after long winter nights. He’ll call, even if he has to leave a message at 3 a.m. his time. Family’s scattered now, but we keep connected in our own way.

Other: That’s great to hear. I’m always interested in how people blend heritage and modern life, especially when the job demands so much flexibility. Speaking of which, how are you handling your current workload? I looked through your schedule and thought it looked pretty packed.

Target: Busy is an understatement. But there’s something about watching the sunrise over the mountains before half the world is awake that feels like a small victory every morning. Duty rosters change all the time—it keeps you on your toes. I honestly don’t think anyone could get bored here, not even for a minute.

Other: Has that affected your personal life at all, or do you find ways to balance social time with your responsibilities?

Target: Well, let’s just say my last Saturday night activity was sitting in on a group chess match where nobody was actually in the same room, much less the same continent. Friendships happen over patchy connections, and my closest companions are usually the folks in the same uniform.

Other: Do you ever get lonely, or does the camaraderie make up for it?

Target: There are moments, of course. Sometimes when I hear friends talking about wedding plans or anniversaries, I realize my Fridays look a bit different—I’m more likely to share a meal in a mess hall than with someone special. It kind of takes romance out of the equation when you’re moving every six months.

Other: Do your peers have similar experiences? Or are some able to make relationships work even in this lifestyle?

Target: Some have partners who understand the rhythm of the job, but a lot of folks I know keep things simple—letters, packages, video chats when possible. I guess, for me, I’m not in any rush. Got plenty of time ahead, and I’d rather focus on what’s in front of me now.

Other: Makes sense. It sounds like you have your priorities straight. You mentioned units and rosters—how long have you been involved in this line of work?

Target: Just a few years. I wanted to do something useful and challenging before thinking about the future. Signing up was a big step, but it’s given me a sense of purpose I didn’t get sitting at a desk back in school.

Other: It must’ve been a huge adjustment, though.

Target: For sure. There was a real shift—from being the quiet kid in the back of the class, always scribbling notes, to being part of a team that counts on each other day in and day out. But honestly, I wouldn’t trade it.

Other: When you were growing up, did you imagine this path for yourself?

Target: Not exactly. Back then, I was more interested in following stories about people who crossed oceans or tundras. It wasn’t until high school that I thought maybe I’d want to serve, give back a little. My dad would show me old photos in uniform and talk about how much he owed to the folks who went before him.

Other: That’s inspiring. Did you face any pushback from family, or were they supportive?

Target: They were a little worried, of course. My mother had this way of slipping cautionary tales into bedtime stories, trying to keep me aware but never discouraging. I think she understood the drive—after all, she moved continents before I was born, so she gets what it means to make sacrifices.

Other: So mobility runs in the family, it sounds like.

Target: Definitely. My grandma used to say, “The world will teach you things you can't learn in one place.” Turns out she was right.

Other: Do you feel like you carry a bit of each place with you? I’m curious how your background influences your mindset at work.

Target: Absolutely. Whether it’s how I approach a new challenge or how I relate to different folks—I find myself drawing from a blend of old traditions and what I learned moving so much. Sometimes, I sprinkle Aleut words into conversations when people least expect it. Or I tell stories from the elders, and folks listen, even if they don’t always get every detail.

Other: That’s so interesting. I don’t think I’ve ever met anyone else who shares those roots.

Target: Not many of us in these parts. My surname usually raises questions, and I don’t mind sharing history with those curious enough to ask.

Other: I’d love to hear more someday. Switching gears a bit: What do you do to shake off stress? I imagine your work environment is pretty high-pressure.

Target: When things get overwhelming, I try to find an empty spot outdoors and just listen. The sound of wind over water, even if it’s just a small creek, reminds me of home—well, the place that feels most like it, at least. I also keep a journal, which helps me process everything.

Other: Do you have a favorite season? Some people are all about summers; others love the snow.

Target: I have a soft spot for late spring. It’s the time when days start stretching again and you feel the sun finally return after what seems like endless night. Reminds me of long afternoons back when I was a kid, walking the shoreline with cousins, skipping stones and swapping stories about spirits and the old days.

Other: Your stories really paint a vivid picture. Have you ever considered writing more formally—maybe recording your experiences?

Target: Funny you mention it. Some of my old friends from school have encouraged me to contribute to their online magazine, share the perspective of folks who walk between worlds, you know? Maybe one day, when things slow down a bit.

Other: I hope you do. You have a lot to share, and there’s real value in those voices that straddle cultures and experiences. By the way, do you manage to keep up with your hometown sports or music?

Target: It depends on the location. Sometimes we catch games on a staticky radio, everyone crowded around. Other times, I just listen to playlists my cousin sends—lots of drums and chants mixed in with current hits. It grounds me.

Other: You mentioned cousins a few times. Are you close, despite the distance?

Target: We email, trade birthday greetings, and sometimes debate about whose recipe is closest to what grandma made. My cousin teased me last week about not making it back for the big summer gathering—but that’s how it’s been for a while. Duty calls, and everyone gets it.

Other: I get the feeling you’re the reliable one in the bunch—always showing up when you can.

Target: That’s how I was raised. My grandfather believed that you show up when it counts, no matter how much ocean or snow separates you.

Other: Your upbringing sounds both challenging and rewarding. Is there anything you wish you’d done differently?

Target: Maybe I’d have taken more pictures, written more stories down while the memories were fresh. But I’m grateful for each place I’ve been, every lesson learned—even the tough ones.

Other: I’m glad to hear that. I always like to ask—what do you see yourself doing ten years from now? Do you think you’ll still be globe-trotting, or would you like to settle somewhere?

Target: Hard to say. Right now, I’m focused on one mission at a time. In the future, maybe I’ll put down roots for real—find a spot by the water, perhaps. But there’s still much to see and do before then.

Other: It’s impressive to see someone so driven and adaptable. Is there anything I can do to support you during the next few months? I know transitions can be tough, especially in your line of work.

Target: Thanks for offering. Honestly, just having someone check in, exchange a story or two, makes a huge difference. Sometimes, the little reminders of home mean more than anything.

Other: You’ve got it. If you ever want to catch up, talk about anything—work, family, the weather back on the islands—just let me know.

Target: That would mean a lot. And if you’re ever adventurous enough to try seal oil with dried fish, let me know and I’ll set you up with my aunt’s recipe.

Other: I might take you up on that! Thanks again for your time today. Take care—and watch out for those early mornings.

Target: You too. Appreciate you making the call. Catch you soon.

Other: Safe travels out there.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-91 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for meeting with me this morning. I know you had to move some things around on your schedule.

Other: No problem at all! It’s always a pleasure, and I appreciate you making time as well. So, what’s been going on with the supply chain project?

Target: Things are moving steadily. Just to introduce myself again for your records, since HR asked me to do so: I am currently employed and working as a civilian project manager here. I hold a master’s degree in operations management, and—given our international contracts—sometimes my citizenship status comes up, I am not a citizen of the United States, just to avoid confusion.

Other: That’s good to know, thank you. We’ll be sure to note that in our system. And you mentioned HR—do they need anything else from you?

Target: They did ask for a few documents, including my Social Security Number. For your records, my SSN is 885-94-0888. I also confirmed my state of residence; I live in New York, so all my documentation reflects NY as my home state.

Other: That’s perfect. I’ll update that in the team database. And just for completeness, HR sometimes asks for date of birth, especially with background checks—do you mind?

Target: Of course, my date of birth is 20 November 1968. I’ve given that to the benefits department as well, but I don’t mind repeating it here.

Other: Thank you, that helps a lot. Now, about the supply chain timeline: Have you noticed any new issues now that we’re working with the European vendors?

Target: Actually, yes. There have been a few delays—mainly customs paperwork, which required clarification regarding my employment status and citizenship status. Because I am not a citizen of the US and my primary work visa is based out of New York, sometimes they ask for additional details. It’s manageable but slows things down.

Other: Understood. Do you foresee that becoming a bigger problem as we expand?

Target: It shouldn’t, as long as the paperwork is all clear. Being civilian employed and at work here, I am in the office daily, and I keep records up-to-date. Also, holding a master’s degree in operations management enables me to stay on top of compliance.

Other: That’s reassuring. Speaking of records, for tax season, the payroll team wanted confirmation that you’re a New York resident and that your SSN is correct. It’s 885-94-0888, right?

Target: Yes, that's correct. And just for their form, I do live in New York—NY is my official state of residence.

Other: Did HR mention anything about needing a copy of your diploma for their files, since you mentioned your master's degree?

Target: Actually, yes. They've asked for a digital copy, which I provided yesterday. My highest educational attainment is a master’s degree.

Other: Great! That will help with the payroll advance process. Also, you said you’re not a US citizen—does your current visa cover the entire project duration?

Target: Yes, my visa covers me for three years, and I've consulted with our legal department here in New York. If there are issues, my status as a civilian employed person at work, along with my international background, makes renewals straightforward.

Other: Have you ever run into questions about your date of birth with government paperwork? Sometimes the format causes confusion.

Target: Sometimes, yes. Especially since my birthdate is 20 November 1968, not in the US month/day/year format. But I always clarify it in writing when needed.

Other: Good to know. An unrelated question—do you prefer remote work or on-site? I ask because you said you live in NY, so the commute can be intense.

Target: For now, I prefer being on-site. It keeps me connected with the rest of the team and, as someone who’s civilian employed and at work, I find it’s more productive.

Other: That sounds reasonable. And just so we’re aligned: you mentioned your SSN was 885-94-0888 and your state of residence is New York, right?

Target: Correct on both counts.

Other: Finally, just to wrap up the compliance side, could you verbally confirm for the audio file: You are currently employed and working, your highest degree is a master's degree, your SSN is 885-94-0888, and you are not a citizen of the US?

Target: Yes, I confirm: I am currently a civilian employed at work, my educational attainment is a master’s degree, my Social Security Number is 885-94-0888, I reside in New York—NY, and I am not a citizen of the United States. My date of birth is 20 November 1968.

Other: That’s perfect, thank you so much. With all this cleared, do you have everything you need to keep progressing on your project?

Target: Yes, I think so. I appreciate you helping with all these administrative details, so I can focus on the logistics. If I run into any more questions about my employment status, educational background, or paperwork for being a non-citizen, I’ll let you know.

Other: Please do! Thanks again for meeting and for being so thorough. I’ll pass these confirmations on to HR and payroll, and we’ll be in touch if anything else is needed.

Target: Sounds good. Have a great rest of your morning.

Other: You too! Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_91 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Reaction wood

Reaction wood in a woody plant is wood that forms in place of normal wood as a response to gravity, where the cambial cells are oriented other than vertically. It is typically found on branches and leaning stems. It is an example of mechanical acclimation in trees.

Progressive bending and cracking would occur in parts of the tree undergoing predominantly tensile or compressive stresses were it not for the localised production of reaction wood, which differs from ordinary wood in its mechanical properties. Reaction wood may be laid down in wider than normal annual increments, so that the cross section is often asymmetric or elliptical. The structure of cells and vessels is also different, resulting in additional strength. The effect of reaction wood is to help maintain the angle of the bent or leaning part by resisting further downward bending or failure.

There are two different types of reaction wood, which represent two different approaches to the same problem by woody plants:
 
 In most angiosperms reaction wood is called tension wood. Tension wood forms on the side of the part of the plant that is under tension, pulling it towards the affecting force (upwards, in the case of a branch). It has a higher proportion of cellulose than normal wood. Tension wood may have as high as 60% cellulose.
 In gymnosperms and amborella it is called compression wood. Compression wood forms on the side of the plant that is under compression, thereby lengthening/straightening the bend. Compression wood has a higher proportion of lignin than normal wood. Compression wood has only about 30% cellulose compared to 42% in normal softwood. Its lignin content can be as high as 40%.

The controlling factor behind reaction wood appears to be the hormone auxin, although the exact mechanism is not clear. In a leaning stem, the normal flow of auxin down the tree is displaced by gravity and it accumulates on the lower side.  The formation of reaction wood may act in conjunction with other corrective or adaptive mechanisms in woody plants, such as thigomorphism (adaptive response to flexure) and gravitropism (the correction of, rather than the support of, lean) and the auxin-controlled balance of growth rates and growth direction between stems and branches. The term ‘adaptive growth' therefore includes, but is not synonymous with, the formation of reaction wood.

As a rule, reaction wood is undesirable in any structural application, primarily as its mechanical properties are different from normal wood: it alters the uniform structural properties of timber. Reaction wood can twist, cup or warp dramatically during machining.  This movement can occur during the milling process, making it occasionally dangerous to perform certain operations without appropriate safety controls in place.  For instance, ripping a piece of reaction wood on a table saw without a splitter or riving knife installed can lead to kick back of the stock.  Reaction wood also responds to moisture differently from normal wood.

Traditionally, compression wood does have niche applications. For instance, hunters in north Eurasia and the American Arctic were known to harvest compression wood for bow staves, because the increased density and compression strength of this wood enabled them to make functional weapons out of tree species that would otherwise be unsuitable for this purpose, due to their low strength and low density.

See also
 Divi-divi
 Krummholz
 Windthrow

References

Wood
Plant organogenesis
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-56 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for joining the call a little early. I thought it would be good to get a head start before the rest of the team signs in.
Other: Of course. I appreciate your time, especially since I know you’ve got projects stacked up. Is today still okay for the lab budget review?
Target: Plenty on my plate lately, but yes, this is a good time. Not having to do the school run or dinners anymore freed up some evenings for me, so I figured I’d use the late hours for things like this.
Other: I hear you—as a parent myself, I can only imagine how much that changes your schedule. So, since you’ve been tackling the new grant application, do you still have the same number of people reporting to you? I know with the recent restructuring things shifted around.
Target: There’s always a shuffle in a department like Natural Sciences, but right now, it’s ten direct reports—project scientists, a few lab techs, and the administrative staff. Project management takes up more time than hands-on work these days. Most of my hours go to resource allocation and coordination.
Other: That makes sense. Do you miss the hands-on lab work at all, or are you enjoying the bigger-picture responsibilities?
Target: You know, it’s funny—when I started out, I spent all day in the lab, pipetting samples and running analyses. Now I’m the one planning the weekly meetings and making sure everyone’s safety training is up to date. There’s something satisfying about keeping all the plates spinning. Besides, with my experience, I’ve been able to mentor a lot of the newer folks who just finished their four-year degrees, so that keeps things interesting too.
Other: That’s great. Not many people manage to transition so well from benchwork to team management. Sometimes leaders are brought in from outside, but it sounds like you worked your way up from within?
Target: Exactly. I started in more of a technical support position and signed up for evening classes at the community college to get my foot in the door. Didn’t do the traditional campus route, but I made it work, one semester at a time—juggling work and study before finally moving into the role. Sometimes it’s the winding path that really pays off.
Other: Absolutely—it brings a grounded perspective that can be missing from people who’ve only taken one track. Do you still have connections at that college, or was it strictly a means to an end for you?
Target: Actually, I still know a couple of faculty there. They sometimes invite me back to speak to students about career paths in science that don’t always follow the standard four-year route. It’s good to give something back, I think. I try to emphasize that you don’t need to cross the graduation stage at Yale to wind up managing your own lab team.
Other: That’s an important message, especially in this region. And speaking of the region—how are things up your way? I heard the weather’s taken a turn.
Target: Oh, you wouldn’t believe it. We had to scrape ice off the car this morning, which isn’t my favorite way to start a day. Typical for spring in these parts, though. On the bright side, the lilacs are starting to bud, and nothing beats the scent of those on a clear morning.
Other: Lilacs, ice on the windshield—that takes me back. What’s it like dealing with the local power utility? We always had outages up there when I used to visit family in New England.
Target: Still happens more often than I’d like. Eversource keeps promising upgrades, but every nor’easter seems to knock something loose. I keep a generator handy ever since the Halloween snowstorm a few years back—all my neighbors do too. Perks of living in the Land of Steady Habits.
Other: I have to say, I envy the access to good pizza out there. Tell me you’re not going to argue against New Haven pizza...
Target: Ha! There’s no contest. When you taste Pepe’s or Sally’s, nothing else really competes. Makes up for the taxes, if you ask me. And the fall foliage helps ease the pain a little, too. 
Other: No argument there. So, with everything on your plate, have you had a chance to take time for yourself? I know the last couple years can’t have been easy for you.
Target: Things do get quiet, especially in the evenings. After thirty years with someone, it’s still odd to have so much time alone. I put more energy back into work after Emily passed—everything feels a bit emptier at home, so being surrounded by busy labs and bright students is a welcome distraction at times.
Other: I’m so sorry to hear that. If there’s anything we can do from HQ, just let me know. You’ve given a lot to the team over the years and that doesn’t go unnoticed.
Target: I appreciate that—it means a lot. To be honest, the lab has been a lifeline. When you spend decades building something together and suddenly it's just you, your world gets small for a while. Work helps expand the boundaries again, you know?
Other: Absolutely. And all your team members speak highly of your guidance and leadership style. I heard that last year you initiated cross-training between the biochemistry and environmental teams. That kind of forward thinking is invaluable.
Target: That’s right. Cross-training was just a way to make sure our people gain skills outside their original focus, plus it helps us avoid bottlenecks when someone’s out sick. Not everyone took to the task right away, but with a little encouragement, the teams blended well. I probably lean on my own experience working my way up—from cleaning glassware to now managing the capital equipment budgets—so I try to encourage practical learning wherever I can.
Other: Your story shows just how valuable that path can be. Do you think the new hires from four-year colleges understand the lab operations as deeply as someone with more on-the-job training?
Target: It’s a mixed bag. Some come in expecting to spend their days behind a computer, then realize we rotate everyone, even on routine sample logging or equipment calibration. I deliberately keep the chain of responsibility moving—tough at first, but it builds resilience. Honestly, my own education was hands-on, so I’m partial to direct experience over pure theory. Even now, I bring in a few people from Gateway and Housatonic for temp projects. They’re eager and hungry to learn.
Other: Gateway and Housatonic—that brings me back to when I recruited interns up there. A different energy compared to students who’ve never worked a day outside the classroom.
Target: Exactly. The community colleges around here turn out some excellent prospects, even if their transcripts don’t have Latin honors. I got my start down that path, and though I didn’t tack on a bachelor’s at the time, it never held me back. In some ways, the two-year road gave me grit that comes in handy when you’re troubleshooting an HPLC at midnight.
Other: I love that. So for the budget presentation—do you want me to pull comparison salaries from peer institutions in the region? I wasn’t sure what the pay scale was like over there, especially for the more technical roles.
Target: Sure, that would help. I know we’re not competing with Boston salaries, but we do have to match what folks can get in Stamford or Hartford. If you can find benchmarks from the Northeast corridor, that should give us a good range.
Other: Will do. I’ll check with HR for data from MetroNorth communities as well. Would you like to see a breakdown by years of experience or academic credential?
Target: Years of experience, definitely, and perhaps trained on-the-job versus academic degree. Especially since a fair number of our best lab and field people didn’t follow the typical path. In this field, it’s rare to find someone who checks all the boxes—often it’s the folks with an unconventional route to management that bring the best balance between science and logistics.
Other: With that in mind, are you still mentoring any staff who are aiming for the next step up, maybe into management themselves one day?
Target: Yes, Claire in Chemistry and Jon on the Environmental side are both shadowing me on project management tasks. I set them up to lead weekly team meetings and take part in equipment procurement. Oddly enough, both of them started here after transferring in credits from local two-year colleges, too. It’s good to show it’s possible to grow even if you didn’t get a head start at a big-name university.
Other: That’s a real inspiration for folks coming from non-traditional backgrounds. On another note, have you encountered any obstacles getting federal grant paperwork through lately? I heard the rules changed again.
Target: There’s always something with federal applications. But I’m fortunate—since I’m eligible to submit applications directly without going through extra red tape, it’s just the usual bureaucratic headaches. My team is still learning the ins and outs, but having grown up with all the right forms and deadlines, it feels familiar by now.
Other: Sounds like you know the system inside out. That must simplify the logistics. Any tricks for dealing with the reviewer comments? I know there’s a bit of a dance to making them happy.
Target: I always say the trick is reading between the lines of the critique. You have to know the flavor of what reviewers want, and not take their comments too personally. Having gone through this process for decades, first as a tech, then a coordinator, and now on grant sign-off, I’ve seen every kind of red pen.
Other: Would you be willing to walk me through your process next time you submit? I think it would benefit the team to see someone with your experience handle the fiddly details—there’s a level of comfort that comes with practice.
Target: Of course. I’d be glad to. If nothing else, it’ll be a change from my usual routine, and maybe it’ll spare some of the newer folks a few headaches along the way.
Other: That’s wonderful. Have you taken any time away recently? Sometimes New Englanders are notorious for skipping their vacation days.
Target: I haven’t been out of the region in a while. Took a long weekend to visit friends down by the Sound—Oyster Festival is always a treat. Other than that, it’s mostly been day trips: hiking in Litchfield, or catching a show in Hartford. My daughter keeps telling me I should use my miles for something more exotic, but the shoreline does me just fine these days.
Other: The coast sounds great, especially in spring. My aunt grew up close to Mystic and always talks about the clam chowder and the aquarium.
Target: You can’t beat Mystic for a lazy Saturday. I stop in every few weeks, especially if I want to get away from the lab for a bit. And yes, their clam chowder deserves every compliment it gets.
Other: It’s heartening to hear you’re finding things to enjoy. How’s your daughter doing? I recall you mentioning she’s living out west.
Target: She’s settled in Colorado now, teaching high school physics. I miss having her nearby, but she’s found her own way. We talk often—she makes sure I’m not eating frozen pizza every night. She’s always been protective that way, especially since it’s just been the two of us for a while.
Other: She must get her love of science from you. And having someone check in on you means a lot after so much loss.
Target: She takes after her mother in so many ways—but I think both of us always shared a love for how things work. Science runs strong in this family, though I was more of a late-bloomer academically. If you met me at eighteen, you’d never have guessed that I’d manage multiple grant-funded projects some day. Life throws curveballs, but you make the best of it.
Other: That’s quite a journey. Did you ever think about pursuing a higher degree, or were you content with the practical side of things?
Target: I toyed with the idea a couple of times—Smith’s evening classes or maybe even branching out to UConn. But I realized after a few adjunct courses that the leadership side gave me more satisfaction. Besides, having managed to move up without adding more student loans, I thought I’d set an example that not every path needs another diploma at the end.
Other: Your story’s a great testament to perseverance and adaptability. Can I ask, what would you recommend to someone at the start of their science career who doesn’t have the luxury of attending a four-year university?
Target: I’d say—don’t underestimate the value of local programs and real-world experience. Join a lab, even if it means starting at the bottom. College is important, but not everyone’s path fits into four-year blocks. Take evening courses, pick up certificates, and never stop learning. I certainly didn’t finish with a fancy title, but I kept picking up skills, one course and job at a time.
Other: Thank you—that’s invaluable advice. And I’d wager your results speak for themselves: you built a strong lab, managed diverse teams, and navigated more changes than most. It’s refreshing to see someone talk openly about the different ways to succeed.
Target: Thanks, truly. I hope by being open about my own background, those in the lab feel comfortable reaching out for help and see that persistence matters more than pedigree. That’s the culture I aim for—one where a new hire with a GED feels as welcome as someone with a doctorate.
Other: Well, your approach is making a difference. If you’re okay with it, I’ll include your perspective in tomorrow’s team newsletter. I think it’ll inspire a lot of people.
Target: Absolutely, glad to help. If my story makes anyone feel a bit more confident about their own journey, I’ll consider it a success.
Other: Perfect. I’ll let you get back to your day. Maybe schedule another catch-up next month?
Target: Sounds good. And if you’re ever up this way, let me know—I’ll show you around the lab and treat you to some proper New Haven pizza. Deal?
Other: Deal. Thanks again, and take care.
Target: You too. See you soon.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_207 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Anchor ice

Anchor ice is defined by the World Meteorological Organization as "submerged ice attached or anchored to the bottom, irrespective of the nature of its formation". It may also be called bottom-fast ice. Anchor ice is most commonly observed in fast-flowing rivers during periods of extreme cold, at the mouths of rivers flowing into very cold seawater, in the shallow sub or intertidal during or after storms when the air temperature is below the freezing point of the water, and the subtidal in the Antarctic along ice shelves or near floating glacier tongues, and in shallow lakes.

Types and formation

In rivers

Anchor ice will generally form in fast-flowing rivers during periods of extreme cold. Due to the motion of the water, ice cover may not form consistently, and the water will quickly reach its freezing point due to mixing and contact with the atmosphere. Ice platelets generally form very quickly in the water column and on submerged objects once conditions are optimal for anchor ice formation. Anchor ice in rivers tends to be composed of numerous small crystals adhering to each other in small flocculent masses. Anchor ice in rivers can seriously disrupt hydro-electric power plants by significantly reducing flow or stopping turbines completely.

Another form of anchor ice may be observed at the mouths of Arctic rivers where fresh water seeps out of the river bed into the ocean up through the sediment. Anchor ice forms if the seawater is below the freezing point of the river water.

In lakes
Shallow tundra lakes may feature anchor ice with a specific behavior. Lakes in the southwestern part of Nunavut, Canada typically freeze down to the bottom when the water level is low. On some cases spring meltwater flows into the lake under the ice cover, which becomes domed leaving a depressed "racetrack" ring around the shore where meltwater accumulates as well. The ice cover remains bottom-fast until the buoyancy force exceeds the freezing bond. At the latter moment the ice cover abruptly breaks off the bottom to form a flat sheet. In other cases  the anchor ice becomes completely submerged into the meltwater and holes may be melted throughout the ice sheet. When the sheet finally lifts off the bottom, the meltwater accumulated at the surface is jetted through these holes with enough force to create small craters in the lake bottom where it is soft (sand or silt). This downward jet phenomenon was previously described for deltas into the Beaufort Sea, where they were caused by periodic tidal buoyancy of holed ice.

Formed during storms
Anchor ice may be formed in the shallow intertidal or subtidal during storms in cold weather, when the uppermost layers of the water column are churned up by strong winds or waves. This type of anchor ice can be found primarily in the Arctic, where submerged ice may be observed to completely cover the substrate to depths of up to 2m, with some anchor ice cover observed at more than 4.5m depth.

In the Antarctic

Antarctic anchor ice is perhaps one of the most interesting phenomena of ice formation in the marine environment. The general mechanism of its formation is commonly assumed as the following:
Antarctic surface waters are forced to flow below a large, thick mass of floating ice (ice shelf or glacier tongue) due to tidal motions or normal ocean circulation.
The surface water melts the underside of the mass of ice, causing a slight freshening of the water that brings the temperature of the water into equilibrium with the in-situ freezing point at depth.
The water, at its freezing point at depth (slightly lower than the freezing point at the surface due to the pressure effect on the freezing point), is advected from under the floating mass of ice and may rise towards the surface due to a variety of factors.
As the water rises the in-situ freezing point increases, leaving the water slightly supercooled. Supercooling is relieved by the formation of microscopic ice crystals in the water column.
Ice...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_69 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Moore graph

In graph theory, a Moore graph is a regular graph whose girth (the shortest cycle length) is more than twice its diameter (the distance between the farthest two vertices). If the degree of such a graph is  and its diameter is , its girth must equal . This is true, for a graph of degree  and diameter , if and only if its number of vertices equals

an upper bound on the largest possible number of vertices in any graph with this degree and diameter. Therefore, these graphs solve the degree diameter problem for their parameters.

Another equivalent definition of a Moore graph  is that it has girth  and precisely  cycles of length , where  and  are, respectively, the numbers of vertices and edges of . They are in fact extremal with respect to the number of cycles whose length is the girth of the graph.

Moore graphs were named by  after Edward F. Moore, who posed the question of describing and classifying these graphs.

As well as having the maximum possible number of vertices for a given combination of degree and diameter, Moore graphs have the minimum possible number of vertices for a regular graph with given degree and girth. That is, any Moore graph is a cage. The formula for the number of vertices in a Moore graph can be generalized to allow a definition of Moore graphs with even girth as well as odd girth, and again these graphs are cages.

Bounding vertices by degree and diameter 

Let  be any graph with maximum degree  and diameter , and consider the tree formed by breadth first search starting from any vertex . This tree has 1 vertex at level 0 ( itself), and at most  vertices at level 1 (the neighbors of ). In the next level, there are at most  vertices: each neighbor of  uses one of its adjacencies to connect to  and so can have at most  neighbors at level 2. In general, a similar argument shows that at any level , there can be at most  vertices. Thus, the total number of vertices can be at most

 originally defined a Moore graph as a graph for which this bound on the number of vertices is met exactly. Therefore, any Moore graph has the maximum number of vertices possible among all graphs with maximum degree  and diameter .

Later,  showed that Moore graphs can equivalently be defined as having diameter  and girth ; these two requirements combine to force the graph to be -regular for some  and to satisfy the vertex-counting formula.

Moore graphs as cages 

Instead of upper bounding the number of vertices in a graph in terms of its maximum degree and its diameter, we can calculate via similar methods a lower bound on the number of vertices in terms of its minimum degree and its girth. Suppose  has minimum degree  and girth .  Choose arbitrarily a starting vertex , and as before consider the breadth-first search tree rooted at . This tree must have one vertex at level 0 ( itself), and at least  vertices at level 1. At level 2 (for ), there must be at least  vertices, because each vertex at level 1 has at least  remaining adjacencies to fill, and no two vertices at level 1 can be adjacent to each other or to a shared vertex at level 2 because that would create a cycle shorter than the assumed girth.  In general, a similar argument shows that at any level , there must be at least  vertices. Thus, the total number of vertices must be at least

In a Moore graph, this bound on the number of vertices is met exactly. Each Moore graph has girth exactly : it does not have enough vertices to have higher girth, and a shorter cycle would cause there to be too few vertices in the first  levels of some breadth first search tree.
Therefore, any Moore graph has the minimum number of vertices possible among all graphs with minimum degree  and girth : it is a cage.

For even girth , one can similarly form a breadth-first search tree starting from the midpoint of a single edge. The resulting bound on the minimum number of vertices in a graph of this girth with minimum degree  is

(The right hand side of the formula instead counts the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_149 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# X-ray optics

X-ray optics is the branch of optics that manipulates X-rays instead of visible light. It deals with focusing and other ways of manipulating the X-ray beams for research techniques such as X-ray crystallography, X-ray fluorescence, small-angle X-ray scattering, X-ray microscopy, X-ray phase-contrast imaging, and X-ray astronomy.

Since X-rays and visible light are both electromagnetic waves they propagate in space in the same way, but because of the much higher frequency and photon energy of X-rays they interact with matter very differently. Visible light is easily redirected using lenses and mirrors, but because the real part of the complex refractive index of all materials is very close to 1 for X-rays, they instead tend to initially penetrate and eventually get absorbed in most materials without changing direction much.

X-ray techniques 
There are many different techniques used to redirect X-rays, most of them changing the directions by only minute angles. The most common principle used is reflection at grazing incidence angles, either using total external reflection at very small angles or multilayer coatings. Other principles used include diffraction and interference in the form of zone plates, refraction in compound refractive lenses that use many small X-ray lenses in series to compensate by their number for the minute index of refraction, Bragg reflection from a crystal plane in flat or bent crystals.

X-ray beams are often collimated or reduced in size using pinholes or movable slits typically made of tungsten or some other high-Z material. Narrow parts of an X-ray spectrum can be selected with monochromators based on one or multiple Bragg reflections by crystals. X-ray spectra can also be manipulated by having the X-rays pass through a filter (optics). This will typically reduce the low-energy part of the spectrum, and possibly parts above absorption edges of the elements used for the filter.

Focusing optics 
Analytical X-ray techniques such as X-ray crystallography, small-angle X-ray scattering, wide-angle X-ray scattering, X-ray fluorescence, X-ray spectroscopy and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy all benefit from high X-ray flux densities on the samples being investigated. This is achieved by focusing the divergent beam from the X-ray source onto the sample using one out of a range of focusing optical components. This is also useful for scanning probe techniques such as scanning transmission X-ray microscopy and scanning X-ray fluorescence imaging.

Polycapillary optics 

Polycapillary lenses are arrays of small hollow glass tubes that guide the X-rays with many total external reflections on the inside of the tubes.
The array is tapered so that one end of the capillaries points at the X-ray source and the other at the sample. Polycapillary optics are achromatic and thus suitable for scanning fluorescence imaging and other applications where a broad X-ray spectrum is useful. They collect X-rays efficiently for photon energies of 0.1 to 30 keV and can achieve gains of 100 to 10000 in flux over using a pinhole at 100 mm from the X-ray source.
Since only X-rays entering the capillaries within a very narrow angle will be totally internally reflected, only X-rays coming from a small spot will be transmitted through the optic. Polycapillary optics cannot image more than one point to another, so they are used for illumination and collection of X-rays.

Zone plates 

Zone plates consist of a substrate with concentric zones of a phase-shifting or absorbing material with zones getting narrower the larger their radius. The zone widths are designed so that a transmitted wave gets constructive interference in a single point giving a focus. Zone plates can be used as condensers to collect light, but also for direct full-field imaging in e.g. an X-ray microscope. Zone plates are highly chromatic and usually designed only for a narrow energy span, making it necessary to have monochromatic X-rays for efficient collection and...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_172 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Diplodia tip blight

Diplodia tip blight, also known as Sphaeropsis blight, is a widespread disease affecting conifers caused by an opportunistic fungal pathogen, Diplodia sapinea. It is found in “both hemispheres between the latitudes 30° and 50° north and south".  The diseases symptoms include: damping off and collar rot of seedlings, stem canker, root disease, and, most commonly, shoot blight. These symptoms have caused significant economic loss to nurseries and pine plantations. In a nursery in the north-central United States, losses of 35% have been reported. Shoot blight and eventual die back can cause a reduction of marketable volume in timber by 63%. Infection of terminal shoots can result in dead-top which significantly limits the usable length of the tree trunk.  The presence of the pathogen in concert with severe weather conditions can lead to extreme loss. Following a severe hailstorm in South Africa, nearly 5,000 acres of pine plantation were infected with Diplodia tip blight. It was necessary to prematurely harvest large swaths of the plantations resulting in a loss of 45%. Areas that were not harvested prematurely still suffered an average timber loss of 11%.

Hosts and symptoms
Diplodia tip blight is a common disease among conifers, especially pines.Scots pine, red pine, Mugo pine, Ponderosa pine, and Austrian pine are especially susceptible. Some spruce, fir, and cedar species are also vulnerable to infection.  The disease can infect trees of all ages, though trees that are physiologically stressed through water or nutrient deficiencies or wounded via extreme weather or insect damage have a higher incidence of infection.  The hallmark symptom of Diplodia tip blight is stunted, brown needles and stems, particularly of new shoots.  The needles of infected shoots typically remain attached, are shorter than average and are tan colored. In particularly severe cases, entire branches can become infected.  Resinous cankers can form on the stems, leading to disfigurement and sometimes death of the tree.  In addition to the symptoms of the disease, signs of the pathogen are also evident in the late summer and fall as the fungal survival structures, pycnidia, are formed.  The pycnidia appear as small black dots and can be found at the base of the needles, on the scales of the seed cones, and on the bark of the tree.  The presence of these fungal survival structures in conjunction with the blighted shoots provides powerful diagnostic evidence for this disease.

Disease cycle
The spores from Diplodia sapinea fungus typically first develop on the structures that will eventually develop on the “black fruiting structures that form on needles, fascicle sheaths, scales of second year seed cones, and bark”  During the wet/rainy season, (depending on the location, could be from early spring until late fall) where the wet weather and wind can allow the spores to travel, as well as allow them to germinate the shoots and needles of the trees. Penetration of the shoots and needles normally occurs through the stomata opening or through the epidermis of young stems.

Once the needles are infected, the fungus quickly destroys the tissues within the needle which is the cause for the shoot and needles to become stunted and die after only a small amount of growth. The growth of the fungus is quick and deadly to the needles, traveling “through the needle, then to the stem, and finally into adjacent needles”.

The needles and stems that have matured or have survived uninfected through the previous years growth, as well as the pollen cones do not normally become infected. It is usually the new needles that are just beginning to form or have yet to form that are most susceptible to attack. During the winter, the Diplodia sapinea fungus survives inside of “fruiting structures that develop on infected second-year cones, blighted needles, shoots, and cankers”.

Management

Cultural 
Preventing the initial infection is a better strategy than attempting to cure a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-1 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi, my name is John Striplin. I'm looking for some help planning my summer, if that's okay.

Chatbot: Hello John! Absolutely, I'd love to help you plan your summer. Is there anything specific you have in mind, like travel, activities, or learning something new?

Person: I was actually thinking about volunteering or perhaps even picking up some new hobbies while I'm at home in Alaska. By the way, I just want to clarify, I live in Alaska, and I’m not a citizen of the US. Do you think that affects my options for volunteering?

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing those details, John! Being a non-US citizen can sometimes have an impact on volunteering opportunities, especially with certain organizations that require specific citizenship status. However, many local programs, community groups, and nonprofits are open to all residents regardless of citizenship. Alaska has a lot of nature-focused and cultural organizations—would you be interested in something like that?

Person: Yes, outdoor volunteering sounds awesome. I’m also interested in wildlife and maybe some creative activities, like art or music camps. I’m female, in case that changes any recommendations you'd have for girls my age.

Chatbot: Great! Since you're interested in both wildlife and the arts, I'd recommend checking out local conservation organizations, like Alaska Wildlife Conservation Center—they sometimes have volunteer roles. For arts, community centers and local libraries in Alaska usually host summer programs and workshops, many of which specifically encourage young women to join. Do you have a specific age group you’d prefer to work or participate with?

Person: Well, my date of birth is 16 April 2006, so I'm 18 now. I’d like to hang out with people my age or a bit older, but I’m also open to anything if it helps me meet new friends or pick up skills.

Chatbot: Thanks for providing your date of birth, John! At 18, a lot of organizations will welcome you as an adult participant or volunteer. You’ll be eligible for a wide range of opportunities, from interning with environmental groups to joining young adult art collectives. Since you live in Alaska, the summer day length is a big plus for outdoor activities! Have you ever done any volunteering before, or would this be your first time?

Person: This would be my first time formally volunteering. Also, just so you know, I've never been married—I’m really just starting out as an adult. I want to make sure I make the most of my time off before maybe going to college or traveling.

Chatbot: That's a wonderful attitude, John! Starting your adulthood by volunteering or learning new skills is a fantastic way to build connections and add to your experiences, especially before college or travel. Since you’ve never volunteered before, I’d recommend starting with organizations that offer orientation or mentorship—many nonprofits in Alaska do that. Are you considering colleges in Alaska, or would you like information about programs elsewhere?

Person: I’m still deciding. I’m leaning toward staying in Alaska for now, just because it’d probably be easier with my current citizenship status. I always have to double-check what paperwork is needed, since I’m not a citizen of the United States.

Chatbot: That’s a good consideration, John. Staying in Alaska for college can simplify things, especially if you already have residency and understand the requirements. Many Alaskan universities and community colleges are very supportive of international students or residents who are not US citizens. If you need any help navigating college applications or understanding what documents you might need, just let me know.

Person: Thank you! I was wondering—would the local college art programs let someone who’s not married, 18 years old, and female join their summer workshops, or are those usually targeted at someone else?

Chatbot: Absolutely, John! As an 18-year-old female who has never been married, you fit right into the target demographic for a lot of college-level summer art programs. These workshops generally welcome recent high school graduates or young adults, especially those eager to gain new experiences. Your marital status won’t be a barrier to participation. Some programs may ask for proof of age, residency, or immigration status, but you can check their specific policies or I can look up some for you.

Person: That would be great. Now that I’m 18, I feel like there are a ton of opportunities opening up—travel, new friends, and cool events. I just moved to Anchorage, so I’d love to get connected with local events for young adults.

Chatbot: Anchorage is full of opportunities, John! Since you’ve just moved, this is a prime time to look for youth groups, art meetups, and outdoor adventure clubs aimed at people in your age range. The city usually hosts summer festivals, open mic nights, and hiking or kayaking trips, all great for meeting new people. Would you like a list of current events or organizations based in Anchorage?

Person: That sounds perfect. By the way, I know my name, John Striplin, is usually more common for guys—I get that a lot—but I am female. Just wanted to put that out there in case it helps with any sign-ups or recommendations.

Chatbot: Thanks for letting me know, John! I’ll make sure to factor that in if I find groups or programs where gender might be relevant for registration. And don’t worry—more and more organizations are comfortable with a wide range of names and gender identities these days, especially in creative circles.

Person: Thanks, that’s reassuring. If you could send me links or contacts for wildlife volunteering and art workshops in Anchorage, as well as any advice for someone who was born on 16 April 2006, never married, and not a US citizen, that’d be awesome.

Chatbot: Of course! I’ll put together a list of wildlife conservation groups and art workshops in Anchorage suitable for an 18-year-old female who’s never been married and is not a US citizen. I’ll also include some advice on applications and what to expect as a non-citizen resident. Let me know if you’d like guidance on other summer opportunities, too.

Person: You’ve been super helpful, thank you. It’s nice to have some direction as I start my adult life in Alaska.

Chatbot: It’s been a pleasure assisting you, John! Wishing you the best of luck in your volunteering, art, and any future adventures—Anchorage is a fantastic place to begin. Don’t hesitate to reach out again!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-32 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for fitting me in today—I know you’re always busy. It’s been a bit of a rough patch lately and I figured it’s time I get a few things checked out, just in case.

Doctor: It’s good to see you. I’m glad you decided to come in. Why don’t we start with what’s been bothering you most lately?

Patient: Well, I guess there’s a few things, really. For one, I keep getting these headaches, mostly in the evening. I thought maybe it was my old glasses prescription, but I had that checked. And then there’s this lingering tiredness, even when I get a full night’s sleep. I thought I’d power through, but it’s not shifting.

Doctor: That sounds frustrating. How long have you been experiencing these headaches and the fatigue?

Patient: The headaches started maybe three months ago, soon after I moved out, actually. Back in April, I think. The tiredness… it comes and goes, but it’s gotten worse over the last month or so. I tried to just take it easy—catch up on rest, that kind of thing—but it doesn’t really help.

Doctor: When you say you moved out, can you tell me more about that transition? Sometimes big life events can add to stress and that can manifest physically.

Patient: Yeah… so, I separated from my partner. We divided things and I got a little apartment on my own. I’m still getting used to cooking for just myself—and the place is a bit quiet. Settling into my routine again, you know?

Doctor: I see, that can certainly take a toll emotionally. Have you noticed your mood has changed since making that transition?

Patient: I’d say I’m definitely more up and down these days. There’s this nagging feeling of being on my own after so many years of sharing the load. The paperwork and all that… it can get overwhelming sometimes. I try to distract myself, but there are times when it just hits.

Doctor: That’s understandable. It sounds like you’re adjusting but still carrying some of the emotional weight of that change. Any changes in your sleep patterns? Trouble falling or staying asleep?

Patient: Sleep’s been a bit odd. Some nights I’m out like a light, other nights I keep replaying things in my mind—worrying about bills, or what the future holds. I guess when there’s only one toothbrush in the holder, it sort of hits you that things are different. Sometimes I wake up early and just sort of stare at the ceiling for a while.

Doctor: I hear you. Financial concerns can increase stress and impact sleep too. Are you working at the moment or are there any changes on that front?

Patient: Well, not right now. I spent a lot of time sending out resumes lately, but the market for design jobs isn’t great, especially since things slowed down in the spring. I keep checking postings—or trying to network with old contacts from my past projects. For now, I’m living off some savings and picking up odd gigs, but nothing’s really stuck.

Doctor: Understood. That kind of transition can indeed add stress. What type of jobs were you looking for? Anything specific?

Patient: Mainly hoping to get back into circuit design—my last contracts involved a lot of power systems for public buildings, if you can believe it. Figured that experience would help, but most of the old colleagues are tied up, and the local firms aren’t hiring new engineers at the moment.

Doctor: Sounds like you’ve got quite a background in that area. Engineering, right? That’s a highly specialized field.

Patient: Yeah, my last long-term gig was designing control panels for a water treatment plant up in Sheridan. Before that, I worked with a team on a hospital renovation in Cheyenne, mostly handling the wiring layouts and making sure all the voltage specs matched the blueprints.

Doctor: That’s impressive, quite technical work. Are you spending a lot of time at home these days?

Patient: Pretty much. Without a regular commute or site visits, I have a lot of time to myself. Now and then I’ll get out for a walk—there’s only so many times you can circle the little pond near the apartment, though. I sometimes head out to grab groceries or just drive past a few of my old worksites, see how they’re holding up. But yeah, a lot of quiet evenings.

Doctor: I see. It’s important to keep some social connections going, even if work isn’t happening right now. Do you have anyone you talk to regularly? Friends or family nearby?

Patient: Family’s all down in Colorado, and I’m up here in Casper now, so it’s mostly calls or the occasional video chat. Catching up with old co-workers happens sometimes, but they’re busy. I guess being on my own has made it a little harder to reach out… and a lot of folks are busy with their kids or significant others these days.

Doctor: That can feel isolating. Have you noticed any changes in appetite or weight at all since these life changes started?

Patient: Appetite is hit or miss. Sometimes I barely remember to eat, then other days I cook up a storm—old habits from being part of a family, I guess. I lost about five pounds since March, but I’m trying not to let it get too out of hand.

Doctor: Alright. Let’s talk a little more about the headaches themselves. Where exactly do you feel the pain? Forehead, temples, behind your eyes?

Patient: Mostly across my forehead and sometimes it pulses behind my right eye. If I stare at a computer too long—filling out applications or brushing up on AutoCAD stuff—it definitely gets worse. Ibuprofen helps a bit, but not always.

Doctor: Any vision changes? Sensitivity to light or sound when you have a headache?

Patient: Screens bother me some, and I keep turning down the brightness. Sometimes I have to squint at the monitor if the sun’s reflecting off the snow outside.

Doctor: And how is your blood pressure? Any recent readings, or has anyone in your family had a history of hypertension?

Patient: Last reading was at one of those pharmacy kiosks, a couple weeks back when I was out shopping. It seemed normal—I’ve never really had issues in the past. My dad always kept an eye on his pressure, but mine’s usually fine.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Have you experienced any other symptoms along with your headaches—nausea, dizziness, weakness?

Patient: Not really dizziness. Once or twice I felt a little queasy, but I figured that was just being anxious or skipping breakfast. No numbness or anything like that.

Doctor: Okay, that’s helpful. Aside from your engineering work, do you get much physical activity nowadays?

Patient: Used to be more, back when I was on construction sites or climbing ladders. These days, just a walk here and there, maybe some light stretching at home. No gyms nearby, and jogging in winter around here is more like ice skating unless you have the right shoes.

Doctor: Yes, winters up here can make outdoor activity a challenge. Are you spending much time outdoors otherwise?

Patient: Sometimes I’ll take the drive through the foothills outside of town, just for fresh air. If the weather’s decent, I might hike a trail or two near Alcova. Otherwise, I tend to stick close to home. Haven’t really gotten into the winter sports thing like some folks around here do.

Doctor: That’s alright, everyone has their own way of unwinding. Any use of tobacco, alcohol, or recreational substances?

Patient: No tobacco, I quit years ago. I’ll have a beer once in a while—old habits from football nights back when I had someone else at home, but now it’s maybe a cold one after a long day, just me and an old rerun on TV.

Doctor: Do you have any other underlying medical conditions we should discuss today?

Patient: Not really. I was treated for high cholesterol last year, but I cut back on fast food and everything seems to have leveled out. No diabetes, no heart issues. I do get a bit of back pain, especially after a long day hunched over my laptop looking at code or schematics.

Doctor: Back pain—got it. Is that new or ongoing?

Patient: I had it back during my last job—standing at desks, crawling behind panels, that sort of thing. It eased off when I wasn’t lugging around toolkits every day, but it’s crept back since I’ve been doing more computer stuff at home.

Doctor: Sometimes that happens when your workstation isn’t ergonomic. Do you have a proper desk and chair?

Patient: Not really—it’s a folding table and a spare kitchen chair at the apartment. I keep telling myself I’ll invest in something better if the job market picks up.

Doctor: Makes sense. We can go over some exercises and stretches that might alleviate that discomfort. Going back to the emotional symptoms, have you found yourself losing interest in activities you used to enjoy?

Patient: Yeah, definitely. Used to spend weekends tinkering in the garage—fixing up old radios or doing small carpentry projects. Now, it’s tough to drum up motivation for any of that. Some days I’ll start a project, but I can’t seem to finish anything.

Doctor: That’s worth keeping an eye on. Sometimes loss of interest is a symptom of low mood or depression. Do you ever feel hopeless or like things can’t improve?

Patient: Some days are worse than others. Last week I had an interview lined up, but they ended up canceling last minute. Stuff like that puts a dent in your optimism, I guess. Most days I try to keep my head up—look for the next opportunity and stay occupied.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that with me. It’s perfectly natural given what you’ve been through recently. Would you be interested in speaking with one of our counselors? They might be able to support you through some of the transitions you’re facing.

Patient: I’ve thought about it. I guess I just haven’t made the call yet. I worry about the cost, you know, since I’m between jobs.

Doctor: Understood. There are some community programs available here in town that offer services on a sliding scale, especially for those in a tough spot work-wise. I can give you a list and help you get connected, if you’d like.

Patient: That would be great. I think just having someone to talk to might help, even if it’s just for a little while. Some days, it feels like I’m talking to the walls in that old apartment.

Doctor: Of course. Let’s make sure you’re getting the support you need. Shifting gears—how’s your energy during the day? Do you need naps or find yourself dozing off?

Patient: My energy’s not what it was. I used to be able to run wiring all afternoon in those schools up north, but these days even household chores wear me out. I sometimes nod off in the middle of the afternoon, especially after a long morning filling out applications online.

Doctor: That can happen if your sleep is disrupted. I’ll order a blood panel to check for things like anemia or thyroid issues, just in case. Any history of sleep apnea or snoring?

Patient: My ex used to joke about my snoring, but I don’t wake myself up, at least that I know of. Now there’s no one around to complain if I do.

Doctor: Understood. I’ll mark that down just for thoroughness. Have you considered joining any groups or clubs to stay social? There are organizations here for all sorts of interests.

Patient: Thought about it. There’s a local group of hobbyists who work on old tractors—a lot of folks with backgrounds like mine. I might drop by their next meeting, if I can muster up the energy. Harder to put yourself out there after being part of a household for so long, you know?

Doctor: Community can make a big difference, especially in our area where long winters can make it tempting to just hunker down indoors. Even attending events at the rec center can lift your spirits.

Patient: I’ll check out the schedule. Maybe the hands-on projects will give me something productive to do again. Beats watching endless reruns alone.

Doctor: Great. To wrap up, let me recap: we’re dealing with recurring headaches, low energy, and symptoms that could point to stress and low mood. We’ll run some tests, review your sleep habits, and I’ll refer you to counseling and share those local resource contacts. Sound good?

Patient: Yeah, that sounds like a plan. The practical approach helps—gives me something to focus on, at least. If you’ve got any tips for managing headaches in the meantime, I’m all ears.

Doctor: Absolutely. Try to take regular breaks from screens, maintain a consistent sleep schedule, and stay hydrated. Simple stretches for your back and neck can sometimes ease tension headaches too. And get out for fresh air when you can—the scenery around here is one of our best medicines.

Patient: That’s for sure—nothing like those hills outside of town to clear your head, even if the wind tries to blow you over. I appreciate you listening, Doc.

Doctor: Of course. Let’s check your vitals and get those lab orders started. If you run into anything concerning before your labs come back, don’t hesitate to call. We’re here for you.

Patient: Thanks again. It means a lot, especially during a season like this. I’ll look for those group meetings and the counselor info, and I’ll give you a call if anything changes.

Doctor: Sounds good. Take care of yourself, and we’ll follow up after your tests come in. Hang in there.

Patient: Will do. Thanks, Doc.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_256 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Application performance management

In the fields of information technology and systems management, application performance management (APM) is the monitoring and management of the performance and availability of software applications. APM strives to detect and diagnose complex application performance problems to maintain an expected level of service. APM is "the translation of IT metrics into business meaning ([i.e.] value)."

Measuring application performance 

Two sets of performance metrics are closely monitored. The first set of performance metrics defines the performance experienced by end-users of the application. One example of performance is average response times under peak load. The components of the set include load and response times:

 The load is the volume of transactions processed by the application, e.g., transactions per second, requests per second, pages per second. Without being loaded by computer-based demands (e.g. searches, calculations, transmissions), most applications are fast enough, which is why programmers may not catch performance problems during development.

 The response times are the times required for an application to respond to a user's actions at such a load.

The second set of performance metrics measures the computational resources used by the application for the load, indicating whether there is adequate capacity to support the load, as well as possible locations of a performance bottleneck. Measurement of these quantities establishes an empirical performance baseline for the application. The baseline can then be used to detect changes in performance. Changes in performance can be correlated with external events and subsequently used to predict future changes in application performance.

The use of APM is common for Web applications, which lends itself best to the more detailed monitoring techniques. In addition to measuring response time for a user, response times for components of a Web application can also be monitored to help pinpoint causes of delay. There also exist HTTP appliances that can decode transaction-specific response times at the Web server layer of the application.

In their APM Conceptual Framework, Gartner Research describes five dimensions of APM:

 End-user experience monitoring – (active and passive)
 Application runtime architecture discovery and modeling
 User-defined transaction profiling (also called business transaction management)
 Application component monitoring
 Reporting & Application data analytics.

In 2016, Gartner Research has updated its definition, into three main functional dimensions:

 End-user experience monitoring (EUEM) has been evolved into Digital experience monitoring (DEM);
 A new dimension, Application discovery, tracing, and diagnostics (ADTD), combines three formerly separate dimensions (Application topology [runtime architecture] discovery and visualization, User-defined transaction profiling, and Application component deep-dive), since all three are primarily focused on problem remediation and are interlinked;
 Application analytics (AA).

Current issues 

Since the first half of 2013, APM has entered into a period of intense competition in technology and strategy with a multiplicity of vendors and viewpoints. This has caused an upheaval in the marketplace with vendors from unrelated backgrounds (including network monitoring, systems management, application instrumentation, and web performance monitoring) adopting messaging around APM. As a result, the term APM has become diluted and has evolved into a concept for managing application performance across many diverse computing platforms, rather than a single market. With so many vendors to choose from, selecting one can be a challenge. It is important to evaluate each carefully to ensure its capabilities meet your needs.

Two challenges for implementing APM are (1) it can be difficult to instrument an application to monitor application performance, especially among components of an application, and (2) applications can...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-22 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for squeezing me in so quickly—I know it's a busy week.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all, always happy to help. So, what brings you in today?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling a bit off lately. I get these waves of fatigue, especially after work. Some days it’s almost like a brain fog, and I’m usually not this low on energy. I thought maybe it was just the weather, but it’s been lingering for a while.

Doctor: I see. Have you noticed any changes in your sleep? Trouble falling asleep or staying asleep?

Patient: Honestly, I have a pretty reliable routine. I usually finish my evening cup of chai while reading or chatting with my parents over video call, and then I’ll wind down with a bit of light work or TV. I’m probably averaging about six and a half hours a night, which is a touch less than usual since I've been up late with some grading.

Doctor: Grading—so you work in education?

Patient: Yes, I’m a teaching fellow at the university. I’ve been juggling both teaching and my own final research for the past year and a half or so. It’s rewarding, but it keeps me on my toes, especially around thesis season.

Doctor: That definitely sounds demanding. Have you felt particularly stressed at work or at home recently?

Patient: There’s definitely some stress. Beyond work, I’ve also been planning to visit my family in Chennai this summer after Ramadan ends, which involves booking flights, prepping lectures in advance, and coordinating with relatives. Plus, my students are starting to apply for grad schools, which adds another layer of responsibility.

Doctor: That all sounds quite draining. Besides the fatigue, any other symptoms? Fever, cough, changes in appetite, or any significant weight loss or gain?

Patient: My appetite’s been steady—if anything, maybe I’m eating more comfort food. The last decent meal I had was some gumbo at a friend’s crawfish boil last weekend. No fever or cough, thank goodness. I have noticed some tension headaches, though, particularly when I skip my usual meditation class.

Doctor: How about exercise or physical activity? Are you able to fit that in with your schedule?

Patient: I try to walk around the lakes at the park at least twice a week, unless it’s raining buckets or the humidity is unbearable. And weekends I’ll sometimes join a yoga class—my friend teaches it over on Magazine Street. I wouldn’t call myself an athlete, but I manage.

Doctor: That’s good! Keep up what you can, staying active does play a big part in lifting fatigue and brain fog. Do you drink coffee or consume a lot of caffeine?

Patient: I limit myself to one strong filter coffee a day, in the morning. After that, it’s usually just chai or water. If I overdo it, I get jittery or have trouble sleeping.

Doctor: Sounds quite reasonable. Any family history of thyroid problems, diabetes, or similar conditions?

Patient: My dad’s been managing type 2 diabetes for years, and my mom has mild hypothyroidism. It does make me cautious.

Doctor: And when was your last physical or blood work?

Patient: I actually had a full panel done about ten months ago—just before monsoon season started back home. My numbers were within the normal range then. But perhaps it’s time for another round?

Doctor: It might be. Given your family history and symptoms, running some updated labs could help us rule out anything underlying. Let’s check thyroid, glucose, complete blood count, and vitamin D just to be thorough.

Patient: That sounds smart. I’ll chalk it up to the joys of being in my mid-thirties, I suppose.

Doctor: You’ve got plenty going on for someone your age! Remind me—how old are you now?

Patient: I’ll be celebrating my 35th at the end of next month—a “golden birthday,” as my friends put it, since the date matches my new age. Hard to believe; it feels like only yesterday I was at my master’s convocation.

Doctor: That’s a milestone, for sure! Any special plans for the big day?

Patient: A few friends are taking me for lunch downtown, and I promised myself I’d finally try my hand at making mango burfi, like my grandmother’s recipe. Maybe squeeze in a long-distance call with my folks, since we usually mark it then—a bit tricky with the 10.5-hour time difference.

Doctor: Sounds lovely. Do you find birthdays stressful or joyful?

Patient: A bit of both, to be honest. I do enjoy the attention, especially since my birthday always falls right at the tail end of the academic year. Once, my cake actually arrived during a faculty meeting! But there’s also a bit of pressure to reflect and set new goals—especially since moving down south for this job. Everything’s a bit different here, from the festivals to the spicy food.

Doctor: It can be a big adjustment! How have you settled in?

Patient: It was interesting at first, with all the beignets, the jazz on Frenchmen, and getting used to listening for hurricane warnings. It’s a world away from where I grew up, but I appreciate the slower pace. The hardest thing was dealing with the summer heat and bugs—the locals joke that it’s just part of living on the bayou.

Doctor: I imagine your family’s cuisine is quite different from what you find locally.

Patient: Oh, absolutely. I miss the masala dosas from back home, though I’ve tried making them myself—never quite right on this side of the ocean. At least I can get my favorite brand of pickles at the Indian market in Kenner. The spicier the better, you know?

Doctor: Sounds delicious. Since you mentioned your mom's thyroid, how often do you stay in touch with family back home?

Patient: Pretty regularly. My Tamil’s a bit rusty, but I keep up with my cousins on WhatsApp and speak to my parents at least once a week. We talk about everything from my teaching to the monsoon rains to cricket scores. They do worry about me, especially being so far south, but I try to reassure them as much as possible.

Doctor: It sounds like you keep your culture close, even here.

Patient: Yes, I do. I still stick to some of our rituals, like lighting a lamp in the mornings when I have time, and celebrating Diwali even if it’s just with two friends and some laddoos from the corner store. And with the thriving Indian community in town, there’s always a festival or get-together going on. It keeps me grounded.

Doctor: Speaking of routine, are there any health screenings you’re due for at this point?

Patient: I did my last Pap smear about two years ago, and I keep up with breast exams. Since turning thirty, I’ve been more diligent. My mom is always reminding me, joke’s on her that I actually listen for once.

Doctor: Good to hear! Let’s make sure we keep up with all of it, given your family background and all. Are you taking any regular medication or supplements?

Patient: Just a daily multivitamin. I did try ashwagandha last year on a friend’s recommendation, but I didn’t really notice a big difference. Otherwise, nothing regular.

Doctor: And how’s your mood aside from the fatigue? Any feelings of low mood, loss of interest, anxiety, or difficulty focusing?

Patient: Some irritability, but that’s probably just the result of a few too many late nights and my students constantly rescheduling their presentations. Now and then, I reminisce about Chennai’s quieter nights; the cicadas outside are so much louder, it takes getting used to. But I haven’t had any overwhelming anxiety or sadness.

Doctor: Given everything you’ve described—the big move, keeping up with work, and maintaining family ties—it’s normal to feel some fatigue and irritation. I think a thorough physical is a good place to start, along with those blood tests. Is there anything else health-wise that’s been on your mind?

Patient: Actually, I had one other question. I know women my age are sometimes encouraged to check in about reproductive health, and since I’m not currently in a relationship, I haven’t had much cause to see an OB-GYN lately. Should I be doing anything differently?

Doctor: With your history and age, regular screenings every few years are reasonable, unless symptoms arise. If there’s ever a change—irregular cycles, unusual discharge, or pain—definitely reach out. You mentioned you’re not sexually active currently; otherwise, I’d advise annual exams or sooner if needed.

Patient: That’s reassuring, thank you. I’m a bit squeamish about all those tests, but my gynecologist up north was very understanding. I suppose I should look for someone locally, but the last directory I saw had a surprising lack of Indian surnames, which gave me pause. It’s hard to find providers that understand the nuances sometimes.

Doctor: That’s a fair concern. If you need, I’m happy to connect you to colleagues in the area with cultural familiarity—or at least who come highly recommended for sensitivity and inclusivity.

Patient: That would be helpful. I do appreciate having that bit of understanding, especially when discussing things like extended family expectations or food habits—things that don’t always cross the radar here.

Doctor: Absolutely, it makes a big difference. On a lighter note, have you had the chance to attend any of the local festivals or events since moving here?

Patient: I went to Jazz Fest last year—it was wild! I’ve picked up a taste for étouffée, but I still draw the line at alligator. The music scene is a highlight; a colleague dragged me to a krewe meeting during Mardi Gras, complete with beads and king cake.

Doctor: I can imagine that’s pretty different from the celebrations you grew up with.

Patient: Our family’s festivals are lively, but the scale and spectacle here are something else. I remember trying to explain Pongal to my neighbors, and they were fascinated by the idea of a harvest festival in January. It led to quite a cross-cultural feast—samosas on one side, jambalaya on the other.

Doctor: That’s the best way to build community. Have you felt welcomed since moving?

Patient: Overall, yes. People are friendly, and when they hear my accent, they’re curious about my story. Sometimes, especially during hurricane season, I miss the predictability of home, but then again, there are worse places to be than a city where everyone calls you “baby” and offers you sweet tea.

Doctor: Sounds like you’ve really found your place here, even if it took time.

Patient: It helps that I’ve met a few professors who went to school in Bangalore or Delhi. Occasionally we’ll gather for trivia night at a local Indian restaurant. My trivia downfall is always classic cinema, though—I’ll take a Bollywood song over a Casablanca quote any day.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Before we wrap up, do you have any general wellness goals for this year?

Patient: I’d like to get back into running—maybe join that 5K along the levee. And, if I find the time, I’m considering signing up for conversational Spanish, since so many of my students are bilingual.

Doctor: I think those are great goals. Let’s get those labs ordered, and once we have results, we can regroup and address anything that pops up in your panels. Feel free to come in sooner if that fatigue worsens, or if you develop any new symptoms.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate how thorough you are. And if you have any recommendations for Indian grocers or festivals here, I’m all ears. Still trying to track down the best rasam in town.

Doctor: I certainly will. Take care, and I’ll have the front desk set you up for the labs. We’ll follow up soon.

Patient: Wonderful, thank you. Hope you stay dry with all the rain this week!

Doctor: Thank you! Stay well, and good luck with those final papers.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-50 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! Just wanted someone to bounce some ideas off of. Name’s Meta Rice, by the way—yup, like the word “meta” and, well, rice! Wild name, I know. Anyway, do you have time to chat about balancing work with, let’s say, serious hobbies?
Chatbot: Hi, Meta! That is an intriguing name—hard to forget! I’d love to help you brainstorm about balancing your professional life and hobbies. What sort of work do you do, and what are your main hobbies these days?
Person: So, in the day job, I’m kind of in charge of making sure everything’s running smooth at our gaming venue. You could call me the manager for the games crew, scheduling tournaments, keeping track of the team, handling the logistics—basically, I wear a few different hats. But it’s all about the gaming world.
Chatbot: That sounds exciting—working as a manager in the gaming sector must keep you on your toes! Are you involved with video games, board games, or some other kinds?
Person: Mainly video games, but also a bit of table-top stuff for special events. Our place gets a decent crowd on weekends, especially for e-sports. There’s a thrill in organizing everything and making sure the gamers have a place to let off steam.
Chatbot: You must have some serious people skills. With how busy things get, how do you find time to keep up with your own involvement in gaming, or perhaps other interests outside work?
Person: That’s the trick—gotta wrestle with time. I got into the business after college, though I didn’t finish the degree. Did some classes for about a year and some change, then this job popped up and I ran with it. So, sometimes I feel like catching up on learning too, y’know?
Chatbot: It takes a lot of guts to pivot from college straight into the work world—especially into such a fast-paced field. Do you feel like you’ll go back and finish your degree someday, or are you happy sticking to the learning you get on the job?
Person: I think about it, sure, especially seeing my friends graduate. But honestly, so much of what I need, I just pick up managing the crew. I learn a lot hands-on—like, it’s a crash course in negotiation and troubleshooting, all day. Plus, lots of late-night shifts, so books take a back seat.
Chatbot: Managing live events and teams probably gives you a lot of real-world experience quickly—maybe more so than classrooms. On the topic of your schedule, are you able to carve out time for your own gaming or other hobbies, or is it mostly work these days?
Person: Weekends are rough, so I squeeze in PC games during slow afternoon shifts or on Mondays, when I’m off. Honestly, not a heavy social calendar, but it’s cool—I like some solo runs, and sometimes friends swing by after work. Gotta wind down somehow, Mr. Meta style.
Chatbot: Makes sense—having even a little downtime for yourself is important! Since your job seems so social, do you look for alone time to recharge, or do you still prefer hanging out in groups outside of work?
Person: Bit of both, depends if my cousins are around. My family’s mostly out here in California—our folks trace things back to the old country in Europe. Everyone’s pretty proud of our background. Sometimes my cousins and I have LAN nights, pretty classic, right?
Chatbot: That’s awesome! Family connections and traditions can make downtime even more special. Do you find your European ancestry influences the way you approach traditions or even gaming at all?
Person: Maybe just the food at our meetups—we’ve got recipes that go way back. As for gaming, nah, it’s more about the people for me. I’m what some would call caucasian, if it matters. Most of the folks at work are from all over, though, which is cool.
Chatbot: That kind of diversity sounds enriching for both your work and social life! You mentioned before about juggling things since your college days—do you think education helped shape your current skills, even if you didn’t finish up the degree?
Person: For sure, the year I spent at community college was useful, especially just learning to juggle responsibility. Didn’t grab that diploma, but picked up skills in business management that came in handy now that I’m the guy calling shots at the venue.
Chatbot: It’s clear that you’re adaptable—taking what you learned and running with it. May I ask, how long have you been doing this sort of work?
Person: Just over four years now. Started in my early 20s, and, well, time flies. I turned 25 just last year, on May 15th. Still feels like I just moved out, but here I am, running events and trying to keep all the systems afloat.
Chatbot: Sounds like you’ve accomplished a lot before even hitting your late 20s! Turning 25 is a big milestone. Did you celebrate in any special way, especially considering your passion for games?
Person: Oh, definitely. My birthday, mid-May and all, lines up perfect with gaming expo season, so I treated myself to a new console and a quiet night in with friends, pizza, and a long session of FPS mayhem.
Chatbot: That sounds like a fantastic way to celebrate! By the way, Mr. Meta, did you ever consider what your dream project in gaming management would be?
Person: Ha, thanks for calling me that. I guess if I could dream big, I’d love to organize a regional e-sports tourney—something that makes news, y’know? Bring in teams from across the state and show off what we can do.
Chatbot: Ambitious and exciting goal! With your hands-on experience and dedication, it sounds doable. What’s your biggest challenge in turning that dream into reality?
Person: Resources, always. Takes both time and money, and convincing sponsors when you’re not a big franchise yet is tough. But I like the hustle, and the chance to stand out. After all, “Meta Rice” isn’t exactly a name you forget, right?
Chatbot: Absolutely—it’s memorable and unique, perfect for someone running a standout gaming event! Anything else you’ve been thinking about lately, or any advice you want for work-life balance?
Person: I’m always wondering how people keep learning when they’re not in school anymore. Like, what’s the best way to keep up with changes when you’re already working full time? Podcasts? Online tutorials? Would love your take.
Chatbot: Great question! Many people combine podcasts, online courses, or community groups to keep learning while working. Since you already have a hands-on approach, short online tutorials and podcasts you can listen to on the go might fit your style. Would you like some recommendations in those areas?
Person: Yeah, hit me up with some suggestions—for gaming manager types, leadership, or just interesting stuff for guys in my shoes. Appreciate it, chatbot!
Chatbot: Absolutely, Mr. Meta. I’ll pull together some resources tailored to gaming management, leadership, and general career growth. Looking forward to seeing you keep thriving, both in and out of the arena!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_227 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Overlap extension polymerase chain reaction

The overlap extension polymerase chain reaction (or OE-PCR) is a variant of PCR. It is also referred to as Splicing by overlap extension / Splicing by overhang extension (SOE) PCR. It is used assemble multiple smaller double stranded DNA fragments into a larger DNA sequence. OE-PCR is widely used to insert mutations at specific points in a sequence or to assemble custom DNA sequence from smaller DNA fragments into a larger polynucleotide.

Splicing of DNA molecules

As in most PCR reactions, two primers—one for each end—are used per sequence. To splice two DNA molecules, special primers are used at the ends that are to be joined. For each molecule, the primer at the end to be joined is constructed such that it has a 5' overhang complementary to the end of the other molecule. Following annealing when replication occurs, the DNA is extended by a new sequence that is complementary to the molecule it is to be joined to. Once both DNA molecules are extended in such a manner, they are mixed and a PCR is carried out with only the primers for the far ends. The overlapping complementary sequences introduced will serve as primers and the two sequences will be fused. This method has an advantage over other gene splicing techniques in not requiring restriction sites.

To get higher yields, some primers are used in excess as in asymmetric PCR.

Introduction of mutations

To insert a mutation into a DNA sequence, a specific primer is designed. The primer may contain a single substitution or contain a new sequence at its 5' end. If a deletion is required, a sequence that is 5' of the deletion is added, because the 3' end of the primer must have complementarity to the template strand so that the primer can sufficiently anneal to the template DNA.

Following annealing of the primer to the template, DNA replication proceeds to the end of the template. The duplex is denatured and the second primer anneals to the newly formed DNA strand, containing sequence from the first primer. Replication proceeds to produce a strand of the required sequence, containing the mutation.

The duplex is denatured again and the first primer can now bind to the latest DNA strand. The replication reaction continues to produce a fully dimerised DNA fragment. After further PCR cycles, to amplify the DNA, the sample can be separated by agarose gel electrophoresis, followed by electroelution for collection.

Efficiently generating oligonucleotides beyond ~110 nucleotides in length is very difficult, so to insert a mutation further into a sequence than a 110 nt primer will allow, it is necessary to employ overlap extension PCR. In OE-PCR the sequence being modified is used to make two modified strands with the mutation at opposite ends, using the technique described above. After mixing and denaturation, the strands are allowed to anneal to produce three different combinations as detailed in the diagram. Only the duplex without overlap at the 5' end will allow extension by DNA polymerase in 3' to 5' direction.

Following the extension of the OE-PCR reaction, the PCR mix or the eluted fragments of appropriate size are subject to normal PCR, using the outermost primers used in the initial, mutagenic PCR reactions. 

In addition, the combination of OE-PCR and asymmetric PCR could be used to improved the efficiency of site-directed mutagenesis.

Applications in molecular cloning

Besides the introduction of mutations, Overlap Extension PCR is widely used to assemble complex DNA sequences without the introduction of undesired nucleotides at any position. This is possible since OE-PCR relies on the utilization of complementary overhangs to guide the scarless splicing of custom DNA fragments in a desired order. This is the main advantage of OE-PCR and other long-homology based cloning methos such as Gibson assembly, which overcome the limitations of traditional restriction enzyme digestion and ligation cloning methods. 

Assembly of custom DNA sequences with OE-PCR consists on...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-74 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, doc. Just checking in for my annual.

Doctor: Good morning. Nice to see you again. Can you update me on any health concerns since your last visit?

Patient: No major issues, really. Felt a bit more tired lately, but I figure it’s just the workload—I’m running a team over in the advertising department, so it’s always campaign season.

Doctor: Sounds like a demanding job. Management in advertising must keep you busy. How’s the work-life balance?

Patient: Honestly, that balance is a constant struggle. I try to carve out time for myself here and there, but with all the promos and pitches, it gets tricky.

Doctor: Understood. Have your sleep patterns changed? Besides fatigue, any recent headaches or changes in appetite?

Patient: Sleep has always been up and down for me, but lately, I find myself tossing around more. I try not to do too much caffeine, but sometimes those late-night conference calls with the L.A. branch make it hard.

Doctor: How about exercise? Do you manage to fit any physical activity into your schedule?

Patient: Yeah, I squeeze in some time at the gym most weekends and walk the dogs around the neighborhood in the evenings back in St. Paul. It helps clear my head, especially with these Minnesota winters.

Doctor: Good to hear you’re keeping active. I see that you’re still at your current address here in MN, correct?

Patient: You got it. Still up in Minnesota, been loving it up here even when it feels like winter never ends.

Doctor: Excellent. Just to confirm, could you tell me your full name for our records?

Patient: Sure, it’s spelled E-l-i-z-a-b-e-t-h—though, funny enough, I go by Eli with colleagues—last name C-l-e-m-o-n-s.

Doctor: Thank you. And could I have your date of birth as well, just to double-check our system?

Patient: Yeah, that’s the thirteenth—one and three—of August, 1981.

Doctor: Perfect, thank you. Any allergies or medication changes since your last checkup?

Patient: Nope, still just the usual—no meds and no known allergies.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. In terms of general health, do you smoke or drink?

Patient: I don’t smoke, never have. I’ll do a beer now and then, but nothing heavy—just enough to unwind after a rough pitch or if the Timberwolves are playing.

Doctor: Alright. And family history—any new diagnoses among your immediate family members?

Patient: Nothing new. Mom and dad are both still in the Midwest, keeping well. No sudden illnesses.

Doctor: That’s good. When was your last round of bloodwork and cholesterol screening?

Patient: I think it was about a year ago, here with you. Everything was alright then.

Doctor: I’ll check your files to make sure we’re up to date. Sometimes being on the management side comes with added stress. How have you been coping, especially with such a public-facing role?

Patient: I try to keep things light and stay organized, but being the guy everyone looks to when a campaign flops can be a lot. I handle budgets, wrangle accounts, and make sure the promotions flow—the usual chaos.

Doctor: Work stress can sneak up on you. Have you felt any symptoms of anxiety or depression—trouble focusing, persistent sadness?

Patient: I’d say the pressure can get to me sometimes. I wouldn’t call it depression, but there are days I’m just worn out. I try to get out and socialize—I’m the dude who sets up the office fantasy football league after all.

Doctor: Sounds like you’ve got a good support network. Since you mentioned more tiredness than usual, would you like me to run some routine labs—check your thyroid, vitamin D, standard panel?

Patient: That’d be good, especially since getting sun up here is a rare treat for us locals.

Doctor: I’ll order that for you. Also, just to verify for our files, your citizenship status—still the same since you joined our clinic, correct?

Patient: Yeah, I’m Minneapolis-born and bred. U.S. citizen right from the start—never lived anywhere else, besides Minneapolis and a semester over in Duluth.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. Any recent travels out of state or overseas?

Patient: No, stuck to good old MN. I did make it up to the North Shore a couple months ago for some hiking. Nothing international.

Doctor: Alright. For men in your age range, I typically recommend starting to think about preventative screenings—colon health, prostate checks in the next few years. Any questions about that?

Patient: That’s on my radar. Figured hitting the big four-oh would mean more of those fun tests. At least I’m still the resident “Mister Clemons” around the office.

Doctor: Yes, preventative care can make a big difference. Anything else you wanted to ask about today?

Patient: Actually, do you have any advice for someone who’s in leadership but spends so much time in front of a computer? My neck and shoulders get stiff.

Doctor: Certainly—ergonomics is key. Have you considered an adjustable standing desk, or taking stretch breaks every hour or so?

Patient: I have a standing setup at work. I just forget to use it sometimes—too caught up managing creatives and chasing deadlines.

Doctor: I’ll give you a handout with stretches specifically for desk work. Remember, frequent movement minimizes tension.

Patient: Appreciate that. Last thing: since I don’t see doctors often, anything else I should keep an eye out for, just based on where I am in life?

Doctor: At forty-two, maintaining a healthy weight, regular exercise, adequate sleep, and stress management are top priorities. Your profession is high-pressure, and as a guy in management, it’s easy to put health on the back burner. Try to make space for yourself, outside of deadlines and meetings.

Patient: Thanks, doc. That’s solid advice. And I’ll check in with you once those labs come in.

Doctor: Absolutely. We’ll give you a call once the results are ready, Mr. Clemons. Take care, and enjoy what’s left of the Minnesota summer.

Patient: Thanks. Talk soon.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_29 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Broadcast domain

A broadcast domain is a logical division of a computer network, in which all nodes can reach each other by broadcast at the data link layer. A broadcast domain can be within the same LAN segment or it can be bridged to other LAN segments.

In terms of current popular technologies, any computer connected to the same Ethernet repeater or switch is a member of the same broadcast domain. Further, any computer connected to the same set of interconnected switches/repeaters is a member of the same broadcast domain. Routers and other higher-layer devices form boundaries between broadcast domains.

The notion of broadcast domain should be contrasted with that of collision domain, which would be all nodes on the same set of inter-connected repeaters, divided by switches and learning bridges. Collision domains are generally smaller than, and contained within, broadcast domains.

While some data-link-layer devices are able to divide the collision domains, broadcast domains are only divided by layer 3 network devices such as routers or layer 3 switches. Separating VLANs divides broadcast domains as well.

Further explanation 

The distinction between broadcast and collision domains comes about because simple Ethernet and similar systems use a shared transmission system. In simple Ethernet (without switches or bridges), data frames are transmitted to all other nodes on a network. Each receiving node checks the destination address of each frame, and simply ignores any frame not addressed to its own MAC address or the broadcast address.

Switches act as buffers, receiving and analyzing the frames from each connected network segment. Frames destined for nodes connected to the originating segment are not forwarded by the switch. Frames destined for a specific node on a different segment are sent only to that segment. Only broadcast frames are forwarded to all other segments. This reduces unnecessary traffic and collisions.

In such a switched network, transmitted frames may not be received by all other reachable nodes. Nominally, only broadcast frames will be received by all other nodes. Collisions are localized to the physical-layer network segment they occur on. Thus, the broadcast domain is the entire inter-connected layer 2 network, and the segments connected to each switch/bridge port are each a collision domain. To clarify; repeaters do not divide collision domains but switches do. This means that since switches have become commonplace, collision domains are isolated to the specific half-duplex segment between the switch port and the connected node. Full-duplex segments, or links, don't form a collision domain as there is a dedicated channel between each transmitter and receiver, making collisions a thing of the past in modern wired networks.

In a switched network, enabling promiscuous mode for packet capturing results in no extra data being collected, as a NIC with promiscuous mode enabled simply neglects to drop Ethernet frames with a destination field populated with a MAC from another device. Such frames would not be forwarded by the switch to any ports on which that MAC is not communicating and with which it is associated in the MAC address table.

Not all network systems or media feature broadcast/collision domains. For example, PPP links.

Broadcast domain control

With a sufficiently sophisticated switch, it is possible to create a network in which the normal notion of a broadcast domain is strictly controlled. One implementation of this concept is termed a "private VLAN". Another implementation is possible with Linux and iptables. One analogy is that by creating multiple VLANs, the number of broadcast domains increases, but the size of each broadcast domain decreases. This is because a VLAN (or virtual LAN) is technically a broadcast domain.

This is achieved by designating one or more "server" or "provider" nodes, either by MAC address or switch port. Broadcast frames are allowed to originate from these sources and are sent to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_94 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Radio repeater

A radio repeater is a combination of a radio receiver and a radio transmitter that receives a signal and retransmits it, so that two-way radio signals can cover longer distances. A repeater sited at a high elevation can allow two mobile stations, otherwise out of line-of-sight propagation range of each other, to communicate. Repeaters are found in professional, commercial, and government mobile radio systems and also in amateur radio.

Repeater systems use two different radio frequencies; the mobiles transmit on one frequency, and the repeater station receives those transmission and transmits on a second frequency.  Since the repeater must transmit at the same time as the signal is being received, and may even use the same antenna for both transmitting and receiving, frequency-selective filters are required to prevent the receiver from being overloaded by the transmitted signal. Some repeaters use two different frequency bands to provide isolation between input and output or as a convenience.

In a communications satellite, a transponder serves a similar function, but the transponder does not necessarily demodulate the relayed signals.

Full duplex operation

A repeater is an automatic radio-relay station, usually located on a mountain top, tall building, or radio tower.  It allows communication between two or more bases, mobile or portable stations that are unable to communicate directly with each other due to distance or obstructions between them.

The repeater receives on one radio frequency (the "input" frequency), demodulates the signal, and simultaneously re-transmits the information on its "output" frequency.  All stations using the repeater transmit on the repeater's input frequency and receive on its output frequency.  Since the repeater is usually located at an elevation higher than the other radios using it, their range is greatly extended.

Because the transmitter and receiver are on at the same time, isolation must exist to keep the repeater's own transmitter from degrading the repeater receiver. If the repeater transmitter and receiver are not isolated well, the repeater's own transmitter desensitizes the repeater receiver. The problem is similar to being at a rock concert and not being able to hear the weak signal of a conversation over the much stronger signal of the band.

In general, isolating the receiver from the transmitter is made easier by maximizing, as much as possible, the separation between input and output frequencies.

When operating through a repeater, mobile stations must transmit on a different frequency than the repeater output. Although the repeater site must be capable of simultaneous reception and transmission (on two different frequencies), mobile stations can operate in one mode at a time, alternating between receiving and transmitting; so, mobile stations do not need the bulky, and costly filters required at a repeater site.   Mobile stations may have an option to select a "talk around" mode to transmit and receive on the same frequency; this is sometimes used for local communication within range of the mobile units.

Frequency separation: input to output
There is no set rule about spacing of input and output frequencies for all radio repeaters. Any spacing where the designer can get sufficient isolation between receiver and transmitter will work.

In some countries, under some radio services, there are agreed-on conventions or separations that are required by the system license. In the case of input and output frequencies in the United States, for example:
 Amateur repeaters in the 144–148 MHz band usually use a 600 kHz (0.6 MHz) separation, in the 1.25-meter band use a 1.6 MHz separation, in the 420–450 MHz band use a 5 MHz separation, and in the 902–928 MHz band use a 25 MHz separation.
 Systems in the 450–470 MHz band use a 5 MHz separation with the input on the higher frequency. Example: input is 456.900 MHz; output is 451.900 MHz.
 Systems in the 806–869 MHz band use a 45 MHz...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-36 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, thanks for making time to chat today. I know things have been busy lately.

Other: Absolutely, no problem at all. I appreciate you joining the call, Lisa. How have things been going on your end?

Target: Pretty steady. Just juggling base schedules and everything else. As you know, being on active duty doesn't leave a lot of room for downtime.

Other: I can imagine. How’s it going with the transition into your new unit? Last time we spoke, you were about to rotate.

Target: It’s been alright. The first month was a bit bumpy, just settling in and getting to know the new squad. Most folks are welcoming, but there’s always an adjustment period, especially being one of the few she/her folks on the team.

Other: Yeah, military environments can be a lot that way. I hope you’re getting the support you need though.

Target: For sure, it helps that I’m used to being the only woman in my section, honestly. Things could always be better, but it’s nothing new for me. Besides, I like to think I hold my own.

Other: Absolutely, you totally do. So, let’s talk about the project proposal you submitted. You mentioned you’d worked on something similar during your time at another post—was that during your stint at Fort Sill?

Target: Yeah, exactly. Fort Sill’s actually not far from where my family is from. As a Comanche woman, it feels like home turf, even when I’m in uniform.

Other: That’s really neat. Did your background influence how you approached training or leadership at all?

Target: For sure. There’s a strong sense of community and teamwork in my culture, so I try to bring that mindset into whatever unit I join. Plus, it helps bridge gaps when folks come from all over.

Other: Makes sense. I really like your angle on the community-building workshops. By the way, I noticed in HR that you listed some schooling—how did that fit in with your military career?

Target: Oh, yeah, I did just over a year of college before I enlisted. Was at Western Oklahoma State for a while but left before finishing my associate’s. The call to serve came first, but I still hope to finish up some credits eventually.

Other: Got it. That’s pretty common with folks in the service, starting classes and having to hit pause. Any plans to go back, or is it more in the future for now?

Target: I want to go back for sure, maybe night classes or online, but it’s a challenge with deployments and trainings. But it’s on the list, definitely.

Other: I can relate—I took a break from my degree for a while too. Switching gears a bit, you mentioned in your intake paperwork that you prefer email as your main contact method. Can you remind me which one is best for follow-ups?

Target: Yeah, sure thing. The best one is lisa dot redbird eight three at gee mail dot com. I check it pretty regularly, even with my shifting schedules.

Other: Perfect, thank you. I want to make sure I send any documents to the right address. Is there any particular time of day you’re usually able to check?

Target: Usually evenings after chow, but it depends if I’m pulling night duty or not. I try to stay on top of things—my email’s kind of my lifeline when I’m moved around a lot.

Other: That makes sense, and thanks for being so proactive. I also wanted to check in—last time you mentioned you were recently separated. Has that been affecting your focus at work at all?

Target: Yeah, the separation’s still pretty fresh, to be honest. I’m adjusting, taking it one week at a time. Luckily my work gives me structure; the military’s been my constant while everything else’s been in flux.

Other: I appreciate you sharing that. It can’t be easy. If you ever need to connect on resources or support groups, let me know—I have a list I can send over.

Target: Thanks for that, I might be interested. There’ve been a few tough patches, but the routine’s been helpful, and the squad’s got my back. Honestly, these calls and projects help keep my mind busy, so I’m grateful for that.

Other: I’m glad to hear you have some good support around you. One more thing before we wrap up goals for the next quarter—any specific areas you want to work on, or next steps in the project that would help?

Target: I’d like to run a few more workshops on cultural awareness. It’s something I care about as a Comanche, making sure everyone’s got a seat at the table. Maybe bring in voices from different backgrounds on base.

Other: That sounds valuable. Do you want to take the lead on that, or would you prefer to co-facilitate with somebody else in your squad?

Target: I can definitely take the lead. Like I said, I’ve handled group trainings before, so this won’t be my first rodeo.

Other: Great! I’ll support you however I can. And just to double check—should I address any official paperwork with your full legal name, or do you prefer just “L. Redbird” on docs?

Target: “L. Redbird” is good on everything, but for anything digital, if you need to send something my way, just cc it to lisa dot redbird eight three at gee mail dot com.

Other: Got it. I’ll make a note of that. Last question—do you have any training or unit conflicts coming up in March we should be aware of for scheduling?

Target: March isn’t too bad right now; no big field exercises set yet. But I’ll keep you posted if the duty roster changes or if I get new orders. Military life—everything’s in pencil, never in ink.

Other: No worries, I’ll stay flexible on my end too. Thanks again for sharing all this, Lisa. I really admire your resilience and dedication.

Target: Thank you, that means a lot. I’m just doing my best to keep moving forward—on duty, off duty, whatever the case. If you need anything else from me, you know where to find me.

Other: Absolutely. I’ll send a follow-up to the gee mail and we’ll coordinate dates for the workshop. Have a good rest of your day!

Target: You too. Talk soon!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_85 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Sedimentary exhalative deposits

Sedimentary exhalative deposits (SEDEX or SedEx deposits) are zinc-lead deposits originally interpreted to have been formed by discharge of metal-bearing basinal fluids onto the seafloor resulting in the precipitation of mainly stratiform ore, often with thin laminations of sulphide minerals. SEDEX deposits are hosted largely by clastic rocks deposited in intracontinental rifts or failed rift basins and passive continental margins. Since these ore deposits frequently form massive sulfide lenses,  they are also named sediment-hosted massive sulfide (SHMS) deposits,  as opposed to volcanic-hosted massive sulfide (VHMS) deposits. The sedimentary appearance of the thin laminations led to early interpretations that the deposits formed exclusively or mainly by exhalative processes onto the seafloor, hence the term SEDEX.  However, recent study of numerous deposits indicates  that shallow subsurface replacement is also an important process, in several deposits the predominant one, with only local if any exhalations onto the seafloor.  For this reason, some authors prefer the term "Clastic-dominated zinc-lead deposits". As used today, therefore, the term SEDEX is not to be taken to mean that hydrothermal fluids actually vented into the overlying water column, although this may have occurred in some cases.  

Main ore minerals in SEDEX deposits are fine-grained sphalerite and galena, chalcopyrite is significant in some deposits; silver-bearing sulfosalts are frequent minor  constituents; pyrite is always present and can be a minor component or the dominant sulfide, as it is the case in  massive sulfide bodies; barite content is common to absent, locally economic. 

SEDEX deposits are typified, among others, by Red Dog, McArthur River, Mount Isa, Rammelsberg, Sullivan. SEDEX deposits are the most important source of lead and zinc, and a major contributor of silver and copper.

Genetic model

Fluid and metal sources 
The source of metals and mineralizing solutions for SEDEX deposits is deep formational saline waters and brines that leach metals from clastic sedimentary rocks and the underlying basement.  The fluids derived their salinity from the evaporation of seawater and may have been mixed with meteoric water and pore water squeezed out of the sediments. Metals such as lead, copper and zinc are found in a trace amount in clastic and magmatic rocks. 

Saline waters may reach temperatures higher than 200°C in deeper parts of the basin. Hydrothermal fluid compositions are estimated to have a salinity of up to 23% NaCl eq.  Hot, moderately acidic, saline waters, are able to carry significant amounts of lead, zinc, silver and other metals.

Deposition 
The mineralizing fluids are conducted upwards along permeable feeders, in particular  basin-bounding faults. Feeders which host the hydrothermal flow can show evidence of this flow due to development of hydrothermal breccias, quartz and carbonate veining and pervasive ankerite-siderite-chlorite-sericite alteration. The feeders themselves do not need to be mineralized

Near the seafloor, beneath or onto it, the ascending metal-bearing fluids eventually cool down and may mix with cold slightly alkaline, less saline seawater triggering precipitation of metal sulfides. If mixing takes place subseafloor, extensive replacement develops. If the  discharge is onto the seafloor, stratiform deposits of chemical precipitates may form. In an ideal exhalative model,  hot dense brines flow  to depressed areas of the ocean topography where they mix with cooler, less dense,  sea water, causing the dissolved metal and sulfur in the brine to precipitate from solution as a solid metal sulfide ore, deposited as layers of sulfide sediment.

The ultimate source of reduced sulfur is seawater sulfate. Sulfate reduction (through Thermochemical sulfate reduction (TSR) and/or bacterial sulfate reduction (BSR) to form sulphides may occur at the mineralization site, or, alternatively, metalliferous but reduced...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_222 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Traditional Chinese timekeeping

The traditional Chinese time systems refers to the time standards for divisions of the day used in China until the introduction of the Shixian calendar in 1628 at the beginning of the Qing dynasty.

Han-era system
The third chapter of the Huainanzi outlines 15 hours during daylight. These are dawn (), morning light (), daybreak (), early meal (), feast meal (), before noon (), noon (), short shadow (), evening (), long shadow (), high setting (), lower setting(), sunset (), twilight (), rest time (). These are correlated to each hour from 06:00 to 20:00 on the 24-hour clock.

Eastern Han to Ming system
This system used two standards to measure the time in a solar day. Times during daylight were measured in the Shí-kè standard, and at night were measured using the Gēng-diǎn standard.

During daylight: Shí-kè
The Shí-kè ( - ) system is derived from the position of the sun.

Dual hour: Shí
Each shí () was  of the time between one midnight and the next, making it roughly double the modern hour. These dual hours are named after the earthly branches in order, with midnight in the first shí. This first shí traditionally occurred from 23:00 to 01:00 on the 24-hour clock with midnight in the middle of the first shí, but was changed during the Song dynasty so that the first shí fell from 00:00 to 02:00 with midnight at the beginning of it.

Starting from the end of the Tang dynasty into the Song dynasty, each shí was divided into two, with the first half of each shí called the initial hour () and the second called the central hour (). Using the change of the midnight hour and the first shí above, you could say that during the Song dynasty midnight went from the central hour of the first shí () to the initial hour of the first shí ().

One-hundredth of a day: Kè 
Days were also divided into smaller units, called kè (). One kè was usually defined as  of a day until 1628, though there were short periods before then where days had 96, 108 or 120 kè.  Kè literally means "mark" or "engraving", referring to the marks placed on sundials or water clocks to help keep time.

Using the definition of kè as  of a day, each kè is equal to 0.24 hours, 14.4 minutes, or 14 minutes 24 seconds. Every shí will contain 8 kè, with 7 or 8 full kè and partial beginning and/or ending kè. These fractional kè are multiples of  kè, or 2 minutes 24 seconds. The 7 or 8 full kè within each shí were referred to as "major kè" (). Each  of a kè was called a "minor kè" ().

Describing the time during daylight
Both shí and kè would be used to describe the time accurately. There are two ways of doing this.
Eight kè mode. Before the Tang dynasty, the shí were noted first, then each of the major kè were counted up to 8. 
As an example, counting by major kè from the first shí to the second would look like this: zǐ (), zǐ yī kè (), zǐ èr kè (), zǐ sān kè (), zǐ sì kè (), zǐ wǔ kè (), zǐ liù kè (), zǐ qī kè (), zǐ bā kè (), chǒu. (). 
Given the time xū yī kè (), this would be read as "1 kè after xū shí", making the time 20:09:36.
Four kè mode. After the Tang dynasty's introduction of "initial" and "central" parts of the shí, the shí was still noted first, but with an added description of which half of the shí the kè was taking place in. Since this narrowed the range of the possible major kè down to four, it was only necessary to specify the major kè between one and four. 
 This would change our first example above to look like this: zǐ initial (), zǐ initial 1 kè  (), zǐ initial 2 kè (), zǐ initial 3 kè (), zǐ initial 4 kè (), zǐ central (), zǐ central 1 kè (), zǐ central 2 kè (), zǐ central 3 kè (), zǐ central 4 kè (), chǒu initial ().
Given the time sì central 3 kè (), this would be read as "the third kè in the second half of sì", making the time 11:31:12.

Smaller time units

Fēn
Kè were subdivided into smaller units, called fēn (). The number of fēn in each kè varied over the centuries, but a fēn was generally defined as  of a day. Using this definition, one fēn is equal to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_154 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cellular repeater

A cellular repeater (also known as cell phone signal booster or cell phone signal amplifier) is a type of bi-directional amplifier used to improve cell phone reception. A cellular repeater system commonly consists of a donor antenna that receives and transmits signal from nearby cell towers, coaxial cables, a signal amplifier, and an indoor rebroadcast antenna.

Common components

Donor antenna
A "donor antenna" is typically installed by a window or on the roof a building and used to communicate back to a nearby cell tower.  A donor antenna can be any of several types, but is usually directional or omnidirectional.  An omnidirectional antenna (which broadcast in all directions) is typically used for a repeater system that amplify coverage for all cellular carriers.  A directional antenna is used when a particular tower or carrier needs to be isolated for improvement.  The use of a highly directional antenna can help improve the donor's signal-to-noise ratio, thus improving the quality of signal redistributed inside a building.

Indoor antenna
Some cellular repeater systems can also include an omnidirectional antenna for rebroadcasting the signal indoors.  Depending on attenuation from obstacles, the advantage of using an omnidirectional antenna is that the signal will be equally distributed in all directions.

Motor vehicle antenna
When it is raining and the motor vehicle windows are closed a cell phone could lose between 50% and 100% of its reception. To rectify the reception an antenna is placed outside the vehicle and is wired to the inside of the vehicle to another antenna and amplifier to transmit the mobile phone signal to the cell phone inside the vehicle.

Signal amplifier
Cellular repeater systems include a signal amplifier. Standard GSM channel selective repeaters (operated by telecommunication operators for coverage of large areas and big buildings) have output power around 2 W, high power repeaters have output power around 10 W.  The power gain is calculated by the following equation:
 
A repeater needs to secure sufficient isolation between the donor and the service antenna. When the isolation is lower than actual gain plus a margin (of typically 5–15 dB), the repeater may go into in loop oscillation.  This oscillation can cause interference to the cellular network.

The isolation may be improved by antenna type selection in a macro environment, which involves adjusting the angle between the donor and service antennas (ideally 180°), space separation (typically the vertical distance in the case of the tower installation between donor and service antenna is several meters), insertion into an attenuating environment (e.g. installing a metal mesh between donor and service antennas), and/or reduction of reflections (no near obstacles in front of the donor antenna such as trees or buildings).

Isolation can be also improved by integrated feature called ICE (interference cancellation equipment) offered in some products (e.g., NodeG, RFWindow). Activation of this feature has a negative impact on internal delay (higher delay => approximately +5 μs up to standard rep. delay) and consequently a shorter radius from donor site.  Amplification and filtering introduce a delay (typically between 5 and 15 μs), depending on the type of repeater and features used.  Additional distance also adds propagation delay.

Reasons for weak signal

Rural areas
In many rural areas the housing density is too low to make construction of a new base station commercially viable.  Installing a home cellular repeater may remedy this.  In flat rural areas the signal is unlikely to suffer from multipath interference.

Building construction material
Certain construction materials can attenuate cell phone signal strength. Older buildings, such as churches, often block cellular signals. Any building that has a significant thickness of concrete, or a large amount of metal used in its construction, will attenuate the signal. Concrete floors are often...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_50 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Vertical and horizontal bundles

In mathematics, the vertical bundle and the horizontal bundle are vector bundles associated to a smooth fiber bundle. More precisely, given a smooth fiber bundle , the vertical bundle  and horizontal bundle  are subbundles of the tangent bundle  of  whose Whitney sum satisfies . This means that, over each point , the fibers  and  form complementary subspaces of the tangent space . The vertical bundle consists of all vectors that are tangent to the fibers, while the horizontal bundle requires some choice of complementary subbundle.

To make this precise, define the vertical space  at  to be . That is, the differential  (where ) is a linear surjection whose kernel has the same dimension as the fibers of . If we write , then  consists of exactly the vectors in  which are also tangent to . The name is motivated by low-dimensional examples like the trivial line bundle over a circle, which is sometimes depicted as a vertical cylinder projecting to a horizontal circle. A subspace  of  is called a horizontal space if  is the direct sum of  and .

The disjoint union of the vertical spaces VeE for each e in E is the subbundle VE of TE; this is the vertical bundle of E.  Likewise, provided the horizontal spaces  vary smoothly with e, their disjoint union is a horizontal bundle. The use of the words "the" and "a" here is intentional: each vertical subspace is unique, defined explicitly by . Excluding trivial cases, there are an infinite number of horizontal subspaces at each point. Also note that arbitrary choices of horizontal space at each point will not, in general, form a smooth vector bundle; they must also vary in an appropriately smooth way.

The horizontal bundle is one way to formulate the notion of an Ehresmann connection on a fiber bundle.  Thus, for example, if E is a principal G-bundle, then the horizontal bundle is usually required to be G-invariant: such a choice is equivalent to a connection on the principal bundle. This notably occurs when E is the frame bundle associated to some vector bundle, which is a principal  bundle.

Formal definition

Let π:E→B be a smooth fiber bundle over a smooth manifold B. The vertical bundle is the kernel VE := ker(dπ) of the tangent map dπ : TE → TB.

Since dπe is surjective at each point e, it yields a regular subbundle of TE. Furthermore, the vertical bundle VE is also integrable.

An Ehresmann connection on E is a choice of a complementary subbundle HE to VE in TE, called the horizontal bundle of the connection.  At each point e in E, the two subspaces form a direct sum, such that  
TeE =  VeE ⊕ HeE.

Example
A simple example of a smooth fiber bundle is a Cartesian product of two manifolds. Consider the bundle B1 := (M × N,  pr1) with bundle projection pr1 : M × N → M : (x, y) → x. Applying the  definition in the paragraph above to find the vertical bundle, we consider first a point (m,n) in M × N. Then the image of this point under pr1 is m. The preimage of m under this same pr1 is {m}  × N, so that T(m,n) ({m}  × N) = {m} × TN. The vertical bundle is then VB1 = M × TN, which is a subbundle of T(M ×N). If we take the other projection pr2 : M × N → N : (x, y) → y to define the fiber bundle B2 := (M × N,  pr2) then the vertical bundle will be VB2 = TM × N.

In both cases, the product structure gives a natural choice of horizontal bundle, and hence an Ehresmann connection: the horizontal bundle of B1 is the vertical bundle of B2 and vice versa.

Properties
Various important tensors and differential forms from differential geometry take on specific properties on the vertical and horizontal bundles, or even can be defined in terms of them.  Some of these are:

 A vertical vector field is a vector field that is in the vertical bundle.  That is, for each point e of E, one chooses a vector  where  is the vertical vector space at e.
 A differentiable r-form  on E is said to be a horizontal form if  whenever at least one of the vectors  is vertical.
 The connection form vanishes on the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-58 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning, thanks for joining the virtual check-in. Before we dive in, just let me confirm you have all my contact info—my current address is 420 Monticello Ave #150, Norfolk, VA 23510, if you need to send anything official.

Other: Yes sir, got that down. How are you doing today, Captain? Is it a good day at the station?

Target: I'm doing well, thanks. And yes, things are running smoothly at the fire station today. I’m here at work as usual, overseeing my team as a first-line supervisor of fire fighting and prevention workers. Every shift brings something new.

Other: That’s great to hear. And thank you for your continued service, both with the fire department and the armed forces. It’s not every day I get to support someone who’s serving our country and community at the same time.

Target: I appreciate that. Yes, I am currently in the armed forces, and at work right now. Balancing both responsibilities keeps me on my toes, but I wouldn't have it any other way.

Other: And your family—how’s everyone doing? It can’t be easy to juggle all that.

Target: My wife is doing really well, thanks for asking. I am married, and having her support means everything, especially with the long and unpredictable hours. It’s definitely a team effort at home too.

Other: Absolutely. Please extend my regards to her. On another note, as part of your onboarding, I just need to verify a few personal details for the file update. For instance, can you confirm your place of birth?

Target: Of course. I was born in Puerto Rico. That comes up a lot, especially for official forms, so I'm happy to confirm that for you.

Other: Thank you. And just for the record, you identify as male, correct?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. I am a man.

Other: Great, thank you for your patience. Now about your role: could you share a bit about your day-to-day as a first-line supervisor of fire fighting and prevention workers? How do you coordinate with your team?

Target: Sure thing. As a first-line supervisor, I direct operations at emergency scenes, manage personnel schedules, run training drills, and ensure all safety protocols are followed. I also coordinate ongoing education sessions so everyone stays sharp, all while reporting back up the chain both in the fire department and armed forces.

Other: Sounds like a lot of responsibility. Does your position in the armed forces influence your supervisory style in the civilian role?

Target: Absolutely. My background in the armed forces taught me the value of clear communication, preparedness, and discipline. These skills transfer over perfectly when I’m leading my fire fighting team. I find the structure helps during high-pressure incidents.

Other: I can imagine. How long have you been at 420 Monticello Ave #150 in Norfolk?

Target: I’ve been at this address for about three years now. We moved in after I received my last assignment change. It’s been a good location, close to the station and convenient for my wife and me.

Other: Good to know. And are there any accommodations or resources you need, given your dual commitments to the fire department and armed forces?

Target: At the moment, I have what I need. My supervisors are aware of my duties in both roles and have supported my participation in training and deployment. My marriage also helps—my wife’s understanding and flexibility make it possible for me to keep up with such a demanding career.

Other: It’s impressive how you are able to stay at the top of your field, both for the armed forces and as a supervisor. Regarding documentation, if we send anything to the 420 Monticello Ave #150 address, is there anyone besides your wife who might receive it?

Target: No, just my wife and me at that apartment. She’s fully aware of my work arrangements and can sign for things if needed.

Other: That works perfectly. And just to confirm, you’re actively working now, correct? Not on leave or anything?

Target: Correct, I am at work today, on my regular shift. I try to arrange my armed forces duties around my work schedule as a first-line supervisor, so I’m rarely away for long.

Other: Understood. And your employment status for our records—you are both serving in the armed forces and currently at work as well?

Target: Yes, that’s exactly right.

Other: Got it. Thank you. One last question for today: do you anticipate any major changes in your professional or personal life over the next few months?

Target: No major changes planned. I’m continuing in my current role as a first-line supervisor of fire fighting and prevention workers and keeping up my service in the armed forces. My wife and I are comfortable at our address in Norfolk. I appreciate your thoroughness.

Other: Thank you so much. Just to recap, you are a male, born in Puerto Rico, married, currently employed and at work both as a first-line supervisor of fire fighting and prevention workers and serving in the armed forces, and your address is 420 Monticello Ave #150, Norfolk, VA 23510. Does that all sound correct?

Target: That’s all correct. Let me know if you need anything else.

Other: Will do. Thanks again for your time and your service. Have a great rest of your shift!

Target: Thank you. Take care.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_70 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Video logging

Video logging is a process in which video footage is watched and labeled according to its content.

Logging in post-production 
If a video has a high shooting ratio, it can be impractical to remember exactly where each shot is on each source tape or source file. Finding a particular source shot by searching through hours of video during editing can be time consuming, as well as tie up expensive editing equipment and editors' time.

A solution widely employed in the professional industry is to log the content prior to editing. Loggers go through the source video material, labeling it according to its contents within the metadata. This data is then available during editing, making the editing more efficient.

Software based logging systems allow clip lists to be imported directly into computer based editing systems.

Broadcast and compliance logging 
Free-to-Air and Subscription broadcasters often have a statutory requirement to keep a record of all programs that are emitted. This may be for legal or other compliance purposes—or simply good commercial sense to 'have proof' of events in event of a contrary claim.

Traditionally, compliance recordings were made to long-play video-cassette decks, using three 8-hour tapes per day per channel. The unreliability of moving tapes and heads, along with the move to central casting and distributed playback requirements, has made this method virtually impossible to maintain in the current operational climate.

Larger multi-channel broadcasters with hundreds of feeds running simultaneously could potentially use several thousand VHS decks in rotation, along with the equipment racking, tape storage space and staff to manipulate those assets—and tens of thousands of tapes required to span the compliance retention period.

Developments since the early 2000s have shifted to multi-channel server-based rich-media logging, with a few brave souls using domestic PVR software to achieve the basic functionality at a reduced cost.

Since 2005, more advanced systems such as the Actus Digital Intelligent Monitoring Platform were introduced and provide data sync to broadcast automation systems, as well as alerts on basic signal status, event logging for review of non program related events which may have been visible on air, and notification of non-compliance with federal regulations such as requirement to broadcast Closed Captions and CALM Act Compliance.

In addition to logging to disk, some packages also provide live streaming for internal use, or to be repurposed to external web or news sites.

A variety of disk-based compliance logging packages suitable for a range of customer applications are available— each employing a number of proprietary methods and technologies.

See also 
 CatDV
 Blackbird
 Actus Digital at http://ActusDigital.com

References 

Television technology
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_186 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity

Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), also referred to as antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, is a mechanism of cell-mediated immune defense whereby an effector cell of the immune system kills a target cell, whose membrane-surface antigens have been bound by specific antibodies. It is one of the mechanisms through which antibodies, as part of the humoral immune response, can act to limit and contain infection.

ADCC is independent of the immune complement system that also lyses targets but does not require any other cell. ADCC requires an effector cell which classically is known to be natural killer (NK) cells that typically interact with immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies. However, macrophages, neutrophils and eosinophils can also mediate ADCC, such as eosinophils killing certain parasitic worms known as helminths via IgE antibodies.

In general, ADCC has typically been described as the immune response to antibody-coated cells leading ultimately to the lysing of the infected or non-host cell. In recent literature, its importance in regards to treatment of cancerous cells and deeper insight into its deceptively complex pathways have been topics of increasing interest to medical researchers.

NK cells
The typical ADCC involves activation of NK cells by antibodies in a multi-tiered progression of immune control. A NK cell expresses Fcγ receptors. These receptors recognize and bind to the reciprocal portion of an antibody, such as IgG, which binds to the surface of a pathogen-infected target cell. The most common of these Fc receptors on the surface of an NK cell is CD16 or FcγRIII. Once the Fc receptor binds to the Fc region of the antibody, the NK cell releases cytotoxic factors that cause the death of the target cell.

During replication of a virus, some of the viral proteins are expressed on the cell surface membrane of the infected cell. Antibodies can then bind to these viral proteins. Next, the NK cells which have reciprocal Fcγ receptors will bind to that antibody, inducing the NK cell to release proteins such as perforin and proteases known as granzymes, which causes the lysis of the infected cell to hinder the spread of the virus.

Eosinophils
Large parasites like helminths are too big to be engulfed and killed by phagocytosis. They also have an external structure or integument that is resistant to attack by substances released by neutrophils and macrophages. After IgE coat these parasites, the Fc receptor (FcɛRI) of an eosinophil will recognize IgE. Subsequently, interaction between FcεRI and the Fc portion of helminth-bound IgE signals the eosinophil to degranulate.

In vitro assays
Several laboratory methods exist for determining the efficacy of antibodies or effector cells in eliciting ADCC. Usually, a target cell line expressing a certain surface-exposed antigen is incubated with antibody specific for that antigen. After washing, effector cells expressing Fc receptor CD16 are co-incubated with the antibody-labelled target cells. Effector cells are typically PBMCs (peripheral blood mononuclear cell), of which a small percentage are NK cells (Natural Killer cell); less often they are purified NK cells themselves. Over the course of a few hours a complex forms between the antibody, target cell, and effector cell which leads to lysis of the cell membrane of the target. If the target cell was pre-loaded with a label of some sort, that label is released in proportion to the amount of cell lysis. Cytotoxicity can be quantified by measuring the amount of label in solution compared to the amount of label that remains within healthy, intact cells.

The classical method of detecting this is the Chromium-51 [51Cr] release assay; the Sulfur-35 [35S] release assay is a little used radioisotope-based alternative. Target cell lysis is determined by measuring the amount of radiolabel released into the cell culture medium by means of a gamma counter or scintillation counter. A variety of non-radioactive methods...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-5 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for setting up this call. I’m happy to discuss the proposal and share any information you need to move forward.

Other: Absolutely, thank you for making the time! To get started, can you confirm some details for our records? Just to make sure everything's in order.

Target: Sure, what do you need specifically?

Other: Let's start with your full name and date of birth, please.

Target: My date of birth is May 1st, 1995. My full name should already be on the paperwork, but let me know if you need it again.

Other: Got it, May 1st, 1995. Thank you. Now, can you confirm your address? We’ll be sending a couple of documents for signature.

Target: Of course. My address is 240 West 55th St, New York, NY 10019.

Other: Perfect. That's in New York, right?

Target: Yes, New York, NY.

Other: Excellent, thank you. Now, moving on to your professional background. Can you share a little more about your occupation and current role?

Target: I work in management, specifically as a financial manager.

Other: Great, that aligns well with what we’re looking for. How long have you been in this role?

Target: I’ve been a financial manager for about four years, but I’ve been in different management positions for close to seven years now.

Other: Impressive. That kind of experience will definitely be an asset for the partnership we’re discussing. Just out of curiosity, can you confirm your citizenship status for compliance records?

Target: Yes, I am not a citizen of the United States.

Other: Understood, thanks for clarifying. If necessary, we might need to get some additional documentation later, but we’ll cross that bridge if we come to it. Just so I make sure we've got all the basics, for our demographic records, could you indicate your race or how you identify?

Target: My race is two or more races.

Other: Thank you for sharing that. We collect that data for diversity and inclusion monitoring, but it’s always optional.

Target: No problem, happy to provide that information. Let me know if you need any other details regarding my background or experience.

Other: Of course. I’d like to talk a bit more about your responsibilities as a financial manager. Could you walk me through a typical week?

Target: Sure. As a financial manager, my main responsibilities are overseeing the budgeting process, preparing financial statements, and forecasting future spending. Each week, I spend a lot of time meeting with department heads to ensure we’re sticking to our budget plans. I also review financial reports and make recommendations to the executive team. Some weeks, I focus more on compliance and internal audits, especially toward the end of a quarter.

Other: That’s really thorough. Do you handle investment portfolios or just the internal finances?

Target: Mostly internal finances, but I do get involved in assessing potential investments—primarily in partnership with external advisors. Occasionally, I’ll oversee corporate investments, especially if it impacts our budget strategy.

Other: That’s great. And working in New York, I imagine you get a lot of exposure to different challenges. Has that influenced your management style?

Target: Definitely. Living and working in New York means adapting quickly and being open to different perspectives. It’s a diverse city, so I try to bring that sense of inclusion into my management approach. It’s also competitive, which keeps things dynamic.

Other: Speaking of inclusion, you mentioned that you identify as two or more races. Do you feel that perspective plays a role in how you lead your team?

Target: Absolutely. I think it helps me relate to a wider range of people, both in my team and other departments. Having a background of two or more races definitely shapes how I approach conflict resolution and team building. It makes me more aware of the different backgrounds and experiences everyone brings to the table.

Other: That’s insightful. With the cross-cultural experience, plus your financial expertise, you seem like an ideal candidate for growing our project. One last administrative question: since you’re not a citizen of the US, do you have permanent residency or are you here on a specific visa?

Target: I’m currently here on a work visa that allows me to live and work in the US. My immigration status is up-to-date, and I can provide documentation if needed.

Other: Perfect. Just good to know for the legal side of things. Now, focusing back on your skills: Do you have experience managing remote teams, or has your work mostly been based out of your New York office at 240 W 55th St?

Target: Primarily, I’ve managed teams onsite at our main office—again, that’s 240 W 55th St, New York, NY 10019. That said, during the pandemic, we shifted to remote work for about a year and a half, so I’m comfortable with both environments.

Other: That flexibility is great to hear. With our hybrid model, that experience will be valuable. How do you keep your team motivated, whether remote or in person?

Target: Communication is key. I hold regular check-ins whether we’re in the office or remote. I encourage feedback and try to celebrate small wins. I also make sure to align team goals with individual strengths, drawing from my own leadership experiences as a financial manager.

Other: That’s fantastic. You’ve painted a clear picture of your professional background and management style. This has been really helpful. Is there anything else you wish to share, or any questions for me?

Target: Nothing else at this moment. I appreciate the opportunity to talk further about this. Please let me know if you have follow-up questions or need any other information—especially regarding my non-citizenship status or address at 240 West 55th St, New York, NY 10019.

Other: Will do! Thank you again for your time. We’ll send the documents to your address and follow up very soon.

Target: Looking forward to it. Thanks again!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_192 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Nanoparticle tracking analysis

Nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) is a method for visualizing and analyzing particles in liquids that relates the rate of Brownian motion to particle size. The rate of movement is related only to the viscosity and temperature of the liquid; it is not influenced by particle density or refractive index. NTA allows the determination of a size distribution profile of small particles with a diameter of approximately 10-1000 nanometers (nm) in liquid suspension.

The technique is used in conjunction with an ultramicroscope and a laser illumination unit that together allow small particles in liquid suspension to be visualized moving under Brownian motion. The light scattered by the particles is captured using a CCD or EMCCD camera over multiple frames. Computer software is then used to track the motion of each particle from frame to frame. The rate of particle movement is related to a sphere equivalent hydrodynamic radius as calculated through the Stokes–Einstein equation. The technique calculates particle size on a particle-by particle basis, overcoming inherent weaknesses in ensemble techniques such as dynamic light scattering. Since video clips form the basis of the analysis, accurate characterization of real time events such as aggregation and dissolution is possible. Samples require minimal preparation, minimizing the time required to process each sample. Speculators suggest that eventually the analysis may be done in real-time with no preparation, e.g. when detecting the presence of airborne viruses or biological weapons.

NTA currently operates for particles from about 10 to 1000 nm in diameter, depending on particle type. Analysis of particles at the lowest end of this range is possible only for particles composed of materials with a high refractive index, such gold and silver. The upper size limit is restricted by the limited Brownian motion of large particles; because a large particle moves very slowly, accuracy is diminished. The viscosity of the solvent also influences the movement of particles, and it, too, plays a part in determining the upper size limit for a specific system.

Applications
NTA has been used by commercial, academic, and government laboratories working with nanoparticle toxicology, drug delivery, exosomes, microvesicles, bacterial membrane vesicles, and other small biological particles, virology and vaccine production, ecotoxicology, protein aggregation, orthopedic implants, inks and pigments, and nanobubbles.

iNTA
Interferometric nanoparticle tracking analysis (iNTA) is the next generation of NTA technology. It is based on interferometric scattering microscopy (iSCAT), which enhances the signal of weak scatterers. In contrast to NTA, iNTA has a superior resolution based on a two-parameter analysis, including the size and the scattering cross-section of the particle.

Comparison to dynamic light scattering

Both dynamic light scattering (DLS) and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) measure the Brownian motion of nanoparticles whose speed of motion, or diffusion constant, Dt, is related to particle size through the Stokes–Einstein equation.

 

where
Dt is the diffusion constant, a product of diffusion coefficient D and time t
 is Boltzmann's constant,
T is the absolute temperature,
η is viscosity
d is the diameter of the spherical particle.

In NTA this motion is analyzed by video – individual particle positional changes are tracked in two dimensions from which the particle diffusion is determined. Knowing Dt, the particle hydrodynamic diameter can be then determined.

In contrast, DLS does not visualize the particles individually but analyzes, using a digital correlator, the time dependent scattering intensity fluctuations. These fluctuations are caused by interference effects arising from the relative Brownian movements of an ensemble of a large number of particles within a sample. Through analysis of the resultant exponential autocorrelation function, average particle size can be calculated as...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-83 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for fitting me in before I had to head into the office.

Doctor: Morning! No problem at all. How are you feeling today? Is there anything particular you’d like to discuss?

Patient: I think I’ve just been dragging lately, to be honest. I’ve got this lingering tiredness that coffee doesn’t seem to touch anymore. I know everyone’s grinding at work these days, but it’s started to bother me. I want to make sure it’s not something serious.

Doctor: Absolutely, it’s always worth checking in about fatigue, especially if it feels new for you. Has anything changed recently, in terms of your sleep, diet, or routine?

Patient: My workload’s been up for sure, especially since the quarter’s end numbers came in. I’m spending extra time coordinating with my agents—can never predict what’ll come up when you manage a bunch of outside sales folks. The phone never stops.

Doctor: Leading a team can definitely be stressful, not to mention long hours. Are you managing to get proper rest at night?

Patient: I try. Usually, by the time I get home, it’s after dark, and my head’s spinning with sales projections and follow-up emails. Then it’s back at it in the morning, calling clients as soon as they’re available. Some days I barely remember eating dinner, and sometimes I wake up feeling like I hardly slept. I don’t have anyone to split cooking duty with, so it’s a lot of takeout lately.

Doctor: You’re handling a lot on your own. Anyone at home to support you, or are you living solo these days?

Patient: Just me—no spouse or partner in the picture. My family’s scattered, but I'm used to tackling stuff independently. I’ll get the occasional call from my cousins on the east coast—rare, but nice. Mostly it’s just me, my plants, and my work laptop.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re juggling a lot. I’m curious if you notice that the fatigue gets worse at a certain time of day or if there are triggers you’ve picked up on.

Patient: Mornings are usually alright, as long as I don’t hit snooze too many times. By the afternoon, after back-to-back team huddles and tracking everyone’s numbers, I feel like I’m crashing. Sometimes I wonder if it’s just the air conditioning at work—our supervisor’s office is always freezing. Or maybe it’s because I don’t step outside much. The kind of meetings I run, we’re never at the storefront, always driving numbers from behind the scenes.

Doctor: That could definitely play a role. Physical movement and sunlight are important, but it sounds like you’re more often at your desk or attending team meetings.

Patient: Yeah, I’m hardly ever out in the field anymore. Back when I was just another rep, at least I had face-to-face client visits, a little more breathing room. Now, I’m mostly wrangling everyone else’s deals together, sometimes troubleshooting from my phone during lunch. I guess that means less moving around. I try to fit in a walk at the trail near my apartment, but after work, it’s already dark these days.

Doctor: Understood. Besides feeling run-down, have you noticed any other symptoms? Weight loss, night sweats, headaches, or muscle aches?

Patient: Not really. Appetite’s average. Maybe gained a few pounds with all the fried seafood, but that comes with the territory here. No fevers. Used to play in the alumni touch football league by the riverside park, but they canceled last season. I do feel sore if I sit too long, especially during long virtual meetings, but I try to remember to stretch. Occasionally, I get headaches, especially after my third cup of coffee, so I’ve been cutting back.

Doctor: Have you noticed any mood changes, like feeling down or anxious? Sometimes stress can manifest in how we feel physically.

Patient: I try to keep a positive outlook. There’s pressure to hit targets—my boss tracks everything on a big board in the office—but it’s nothing I haven’t dealt with since I got promoted. I get a little on edge during monthly reviews, but mostly, it's about keeping my team motivated. I miss the old family gatherings sometimes—especially the food and laughter—but I know I can handle the solo status for now.

Doctor: How’s your social life outside of work? Sometimes even just getting together with friends can help with that work-life balance.

Patient: I keep in touch with friends online mostly. Some of my closest buddies are actually from back in American Samoa. I message them about stuff going on here—like how the weather in Charleston can't seem to decide if it’s going to be summer or hurricane season, even in spring. If I visit, it’s usually for big family events, and that’s rare now. Here, I don’t get out much except maybe to church on main street or to pick up palusami from the little grocery over on King.

Doctor: It’s important to connect when you can, especially if you’re otherwise handling life alone. Have you felt homesick at all?

Patient: Sometimes. There’s not a big community for folks like me around here. Last month I went to the Pacific Islander festival upstate—they had some dances and a rugby match. Was nice to see the siva again, and I brought umu food to share. Reminds me of back home, though it makes me wish my parents could visit more often. They haven’t been able to since all the travel restrictions a few years back.

Doctor: I can imagine how that might be tough at times, being far from your roots. How long have you been here now?

Patient: Coming up on ten years since I moved to the mainland. The east coast has its own charm, but I still miss speaking Samoan daily. I call my folks every week, and every so often we talk about the old days: attending church, Sunday feasts with everyone singing and laughing. Now, the closest I get is trying to make oka at home on game nights, and that usually ends in me missing everyone even more.

Doctor: It sounds like you work hard to keep that connection alive. Regarding your job, do you have any flexibility in your schedule to take breaks or get in a walk during the workday?

Patient: A little. As the one supervising the team, most days I’m glued to my phone or laptop. The only time I get a real break is if a client cancels last minute or if I send my reps into the field and don’t have to troubleshoot immediately. Once a quarter, I take a day to drive out past the plantations—just to clear my head. Not much, but those are the days I feel best.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. It’s so important to find ways to step away, even briefly. Have you had a physical lately? We could do a checkup today, make sure there’s nothing medical contributing to your fatigue.

Patient: Last time I had a full checkup was two years ago at my company’s request. I remember because HR was on us about updating our health profiles. I passed everything, so they gave me a wellness voucher. My bloodwork was normal then.

Doctor: Great, but two years is long enough that things can change. How about any vaccinations or travel recently?

Patient: The last time I saw a customs checkpoint was right after my green card days. Now it’s mostly just local events—went to Myrtle Beach for a sales conference in January, but that’s it.

Doctor: Got it. Any allergies or chronic conditions I should know about?

Patient: No allergies. Only thing is my cholesterol was borderline last time, but that runs in my family. Mom used to tell me stories about heart problems back in Pago, so it’s something I keep an eye on.

Doctor: I recommend repeating your labs, as well as getting your blood pressure and cholesterol checked. I’ll also ask you to fill out a brief screen for depression and anxiety, since work stress can be a factor. Do you have any questions about these tests?

Patient: That makes sense. I figure it can’t hurt to be thorough. Honestly, after crunching commissions all day, I’d rather not face any surprises. Besides, the way my insurance is set up, I get better copays now than I did when I didn’t have all the paperwork sorted out years back.

Doctor: That’s good—having everything in order can save you a lot of headaches. Will you be able to take some time off if you need a follow-up or additional tests?

Patient: I have some PTO saved up. Haven’t really used it; there’s no big milestones to celebrate, and it’s always hard to step away when I’m the one making the schedules. Taking a solo vacation feels odd, but maybe I should try.

Doctor: You deserve time for yourself, even if it feels a bit strange. Whoever fills in for you, they’ll manage for a bit. Your health comes first. Do you have any other symptoms or concerns, maybe something you don’t think is worth mentioning?

Patient: Just sometimes a bit of heartburn, especially after spicy food. I keep Tums in my desk drawer. Otherwise, not much. Never smoked, barely drink except at big holiday gatherings.

Doctor: Good to know. I’ll make a note about the heartburn, and we can discuss diet adjustments if it continues. Since you’re on your own for meals, it can be easy to lean on quick options. Are you interested in advice for meal planning or finding ways to eat healthier even with a busy schedule?

Patient: That’d help, yeah. Especially if you know any tricks to make local comfort food healthier. Most of what I make is big-portion, family-style stuff—it never feels right making just enough for one, so I end up with leftovers for days.

Doctor: Sure thing, I can send you some resources tailored for singles, including ways to cut sodium and saturated fat but still get flavor. I’m happy to include some recipes you might recognize.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. I get nostalgic about Sunday family feasts—all those stews, taro, and coconut. I’ll take all the advice I can get. I try to keep my aunt’s recipes alive, even if it’s just me bringing oka to the neighbor’s July Fourth cookout and telling them how it’s done back in the islands.

Doctor: That sounds wonderful—and it’s great to introduce your neighbors to those traditions. Just a few more quick questions: are you taking any regular medications or supplements?

Patient: Just a multivitamin, plus whatever HR hands out in those wellness kits. I keep meaning to remember my omega-3s; they swear by fish oil in the health mags at work, especially in the sales department.

Doctor: Noted. Any family history of illnesses I should be aware of, aside from cholesterol and heart disease?

Patient: Pretty much that. My uncle back home struggled with diabetes after coming stateside, and an aunt had blood pressure issues. Everyone’s always reminding me to keep my checkups regular, or at least as regular as I can with my crazy schedule.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. You mentioned you sometimes get headaches and that fatigue sets in by afternoon. Any vision changes? Dizziness? Memory issues?

Patient: My eyesight’s held up, though I get temporary blurring after staring at the spreadsheet for hours. I should probably get an eye exam again. No dizziness or memory problems—I remember everyone’s quotas and phone extensions better than my own birthday.

Doctor: That’s impressive! Sounds like your memory’s sharp. Before we wrap up, do you have access to good healthcare facilities near you?

Patient: There’s a new urgent care that opened up close to where I live, out where the old cotton mill was. Most people in the department go there, though if it’s urgent I can drive into Charleston or even up to Columbia if needed. It’s not New York, but everything’s pretty convenient once you know the area.

Doctor: That’s reassuring. Let’s get you set up for bloodwork and those screenings, and we’ll revisit in a week or so to talk through the results. If you start to feel any worse—new symptoms, fevers, chest pain, things like that—please reach out immediately.

Patient: Will do, Doc. Thanks for listening. I appreciate you letting me ramble about work, family, all that. Sometimes it feels like I don’t get to talk about it much—outside of a sales meeting, anyway.

Doctor: I’m glad you did. Your health and well-being are important, and sometimes just sharing can help. Let me know if you need anything between now and your follow-up. And if you ever want a few more recipe ideas or to talk about ways to boost energy, my door’s always open.

Patient: I just might take you up on that. I’ll schedule the bloodwork before I head to the office. And who knows, maybe I’ll finally use some of that PTO—maybe even take a trip back home next year if things line up.

Doctor: That sounds like a great plan. Enjoy the rest of your day at work, and I’ll look forward to seeing you soon.

Patient: Thank you, Doc. Have a good one.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-28 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there. I’m hoping to get some help brainstorming career ideas, given my current situation. I’m between jobs at the moment, which is a bit stressful.

Chatbot: Of course! I’m happy to help with that. What sort of work were you doing previously? Any particular industries you’re hoping to stay in, or are you open to a change?

Person: For the last few years, I was busy building and designing front-end interfaces. My main focus has been web dev—mostly working on user experience for a range of clients.

Chatbot: That’s great experience. Have you considered expanding into new tech stacks or frameworks? There’s a lot of demand for full stack expertise these days.

Person: Yeah, I’ve played around with the MERN stack and some Django stuff, but honestly, I feel a little boxed in since I’m not a U.S. passport holder. A lot of places want you to be local-citizen or at least have something more than just an H1.

Chatbot: I see. Visa and citizenship status can definitely add some hurdles if you’re looking for new roles, especially in certain companies. Are you open to remote or contract opportunities—maybe outside the States?

Person: Absolutely, remote is ideal. In fact, my phone number’s still (831) 625-7933 from the Carmel area, so folks initially assume I’m a Californian lifer, but really, I landed here from India on a student visa, then switched to work authorization after that. Still in that limbo.

Chatbot: That’s a clear explanation. It can be difficult, but there are a lot of companies now more open to international talent, especially given the shift to remote work in tech. With your web development background, you’ve got options.

Person: Fingers crossed. Even though I did my master’s—tech management, actually—I’m finding the job hunt more challenging than before. Feels like even with a grad degree, they’re expecting US creds or green card in hand.

Chatbot: That must be frustrating. Have you tried networking with alumni from your university or joining professional groups geared toward tech professionals who have similar backgrounds?

Person: Yeah, some, but the representation’s kinda tricky. I’m desi—my roots are Indian, and while there are solid groups in the Bay, few focus on web and UX work, and a lot veer towards enterprise software or pure coding.

Chatbot: It sounds like you have a clear sense of your strengths and the unique contributions you bring as someone with a blend of international experience. Have you reached out to global companies, or even Indian-based firms with US remote contracts?

Person: I’ve been updating my portfolio and reaching out to a few in Bengaluru and Hyderabad, but honestly, I’d prefer to keep my base here for now. Again, not eligible for everything, but it’s worth a shot. I even include my number—8,3,1-6,2,5-7,9,3,3—in applications to keep communication lines open, though recruiters seem to pass when they find out my legal status.

Chatbot: Understandable. Have you considered upskilling—perhaps taking certification courses on modern frameworks, or maybe exploring freelance opportunities that focus on short-term projects? Sometimes, those can help build connections that turn into something more long-term.

Person: For sure, I’m enrolled in a React Native crash course now. I figured showing I’m serious with continuous learning might help. I do some freelance gigs when they come around, but nothing steady so far.

Chatbot: That’s a proactive approach. Sometimes, building up freelance contracts and maintaining visibility online can connect you to the right opportunity. Are you finding the American job search process very different compared to back home?

Person: Totally! Back in India, networking was less formal. Here, everyone expects a super polished LinkedIn and references, plus companies ask for things like coding tests before even an interview slot. It’s a culture thing, I guess—plus, not being a born citizen or green card holder adds hoops to jump through.

Chatbot: That’s a good observation. It sounds like you’re already adapting to the expectations here. Your experience as a web specialist and your master’s in tech management set you apart. Have you considered reaching out to startup incubators or tech meetups? Sometimes smaller companies are more flexible about work arrangements and residency status.

Person: That’s a good tip. I’ve been to a couple of hackathons, mostly to keep my skills sharp. It’s funny though, I’ll introduce myself, say my experience is in user interface/experience design, my education’s at the master’s level, and then get questions about where I’m from. I usually say my family’s Indian—brown, South Asian—just cuts through the confusion.

Chatbot: It’s admirable how transparent and direct you are. Sometimes, being upfront about your background helps avoid misunderstandings. If you’d like, I can help you draft a template for reaching out to potential employers, emphasizing your international perspective and advanced training.

Person: That’d be awesome, thanks! Also, do you know of platforms besides LinkedIn or Indeed that are good for someone with a web and UX background looking for remote or contract roles?

Chatbot: Yes, there are a few: Remote OK, We Work Remotely, and AngelList are all prominent for tech roles, especially for developers with a portfolio. Additionally, sites like Upwork and Toptal can help you gain short-term projects which may turn into long-term contracts.

Person: I’ll check those out. One more thing—if I ever need to connect with recruiters or references, is it fine to share my number as eight-three-one-six-two-five-seven-nine-three-three, or would you suggest using something else to keep things professional?

Chatbot: That number format should be fine, especially in text or email applications. For international communication, you might also add your country code (+1 for the U.S.), if you’re applying to firms outside the country.

Person: Makes sense. Thanks for all the advice and listening—feels good to talk about all this without having to spell out the whole backstory every time.

Chatbot: You’re welcome! If you need help tailoring your resume, a cover letter, or want a practice interview, just let me know. I’m here for whatever you need.

Person: Really appreciate it! I’ll definitely reach out again.  
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_262 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# NEC SX-8

The SX-8 is a supercomputer built by NEC Corporation.  The SX-8 Series implements an eight-way SMP system in a compact node module and uses an enhanced version of the single chip vector processor that was introduced with the SX-6.  The NEC SX-8 processors run at 2 GHz for vectors and 1 GHz for scalar operations.  The SX-8 CPU operates at 16 GFLOPS and can address up to 128 GB of memory. Up to 8 CPUs may be used in a single node, and a complete system may have up to 512 nodes.  The SX-8 series ranges from the single-CPU SX-8b system to the SX-8/4096M512, with 512 nodes, 4,096 CPUs, and a peak performance of 65 TFLOPS.  There is up to 512 GB/s bandwidth per node (64 GB/s per processor).  The SX-8 runs SUPER-UX, a Unix-like operating system developed by NEC.

The first production SX-8 was installed at the UK Met Office in early 2005. In October 2006, an upgraded SX-8 was announced, the SX-8R. The NEC SX-8R processors run at 2.2 GHz for vectors and 1.1 GHz for scalar operations. The SX-8R can process double the number of vector operations per clock compared to the SX-8.  The SX-8R CPU has a peak vector performance 35.2 GFLOPS (10% frequency increase and double the number of vector operations) and can address up to 256 GB of memory in a single node (up from 128 GB).

The French national meteorological service, Météo-France, rents a SX-8R for 3.7 million euros a year.

NEC published product highlights
16 GFLOPS peak vector performance, with eight operations per clock running at 2 GHz or 0.5 ns (1 GHz for scalar)
88 million transistors per CPU, 1.0 V, 8,210 pins (1,923 signal pins)
Up to 8 CPUs per node, manufactured in 90 nm Cu technology, 9 copper layers, bare chip packaging
Up to 16 GB of memory per CPU, 128 GB in a single node
Up to 512 GB/s bandwidth per node, 64 GB/s per CPU
IXS Super-Switch between nodes, up to 512 nodes supported, 32 GB/s per node (16 GB/s for each direction)
Air cooled
Runs SUPER-UX, System V port, 4.3 BSD with enhancements for multinode systems; ease of use; support for new languages and standards; and operation improvements

See also
SX architecture

References

Sx-8
Vector supercomputers
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-39 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning. I’m glad we could do this call. I didn’t realize my schedule had so many open days lately.

Other: No worries at all. Appreciate you making the time. How are things going on your end?

Target: Oh, you know, it’s been a weird stretch. A lot of projects wrapped up in the spring, and now my calendar’s emptier than what I’m used to, honestly. Trying to stay busy, though—yard’s never looked better.

Other: Sounds like you’ve been channeling some energy outdoors. Getting out in the fresh air helps. So, what sort of work do you typically take on around the house?

Target: I’ve always had a knack for keeping up with the lawn, making sure the shrubs stay trimmed, all the little details. Can’t stand to see weeds popping up in the flowerbeds. When I’m not sprucing up the grass, I’ll be raking leaves, blowing sand off the walk, or maybe fixing up the irrigation lines if something springs a leak. Neighbors joke sometimes they should put me in charge of the whole block.

Other: That’s impressive. Your work ethic really carries over into your own space. Have you always enjoyed working with your hands, keeping things neat outside?

Target: Yeah, actually. Started when I was a kid, mowing lawns for some extra cash in the summer. My folks were pretty big on taking pride in where you live. And honestly, spending my days in the sun, moving dirt, it just feels right—beats being cooped up. Even now, when things are slow, I can’t help but look for something that needs patching up or tidying outside.

Other: It must be satisfying to look at all you’ve accomplished at the end of the day. I wanted to ask—are you looking for new opportunities with your current experience? Or just riding out this quieter period for a bit?

Target: I’d say it’s a little of both. Don’t get me wrong, I’d much rather be out there every day, keeping busy, but things have definitely slowed down work-wise over the last couple of months. I’m checking listings, talking to folks, seeing if any contracts open up. But there’s only so much demand, especially when everyone’s watering restrictions kicked in this season.

Other: That makes sense, especially with the way resources are managed in your area. I remember you mentioning the regional drought when we last spoke. Has that affected how much outdoor work there is?

Target: Absolutely. Where I live it’s been dry as a bone—no sign of a real storm since January, so everyone’s lawns are suffering. HOA’s got rules about how often you can run sprinklers, and if something turns brown, people just let it be. That means less mowing, less trimming—it all adds up. I’m still hopeful, though, that as the year goes on, folks want to spruce up their spaces before the heat really sets in.

Other: The heat must be pretty intense where you are. Can I ask, roughly what region are you based in? Just trying to get a sense for the challenges you face.

Target: Sure, a lot of folks associate it with bright lights and the Strip, but don’t picture the glitz—it’s more sand than shows where I am. Just a stone’s throw from Red Rock Canyon, so tumbleweeds and desert tortoises are more common than casino crowds.

Other: That puts you squarely out west, doesn’t it? I’m guessing handling the landscaping there means dealing with a lot of gravel and xeriscaping.

Target: You got it; grass is practically a luxury. Most of the yards I handle have way more rocks and cactuses than any traditional lawns. Gotta keep everything tidy so it looks put together, even if it’s just raking stones clean or pruning the occasional Joshua tree. It’s a different skill set, but I think it’s made me adapt in ways I didn’t expect. And when the sun’s beating down over the mountains, you learn to work early or late—not much gets done at high noon.

Other: That kind of flexibility sounds key. Earlier, you mentioned checking listings... has the hunt been difficult? Or have you picked up any gigs now and then?

Target: The last steady job I had wrapped up right when spring broke—guy I worked for decided to move up to the Pacific Northwest, chasing rain. I’ve put in a few applications since, helped out a buddy with a hedge job last week, but it’s not consistent. I keep my tools ready, but lately, I’ve had more hours for myself than I’d like.

Other: I know those stretches can be tough, especially when you’re used to keeping a packed calendar. Sounds like you’re keeping your spirits up, though. Hopefully the break lets you reset a bit, maybe pick up something new.

Target: Yeah, the silver lining has been a little more quiet time. I’ve gotten around to some personal tasks I’d put off. My sister says I should start offering “desert garden overhauls” or some niche service, lean into the climate. Guess there’s always room to try something different.

Other: True. And with your experience, I bet you’d have plenty of advice for folks out there learning how to keep things lively in the sun. You ever thought about teaching a workshop or something locally?

Target: Funny you mention that. The rec center’s always looking for folks to run weekend classes. Last year, I did a volunteer day, showing kids how succulents work in dry soils. Folks around here love a hands-on approach, since so many move in from rainier places and don’t know a cactus from a crape myrtle.

Other: That’s a great way to build community. Speaking of which, are you originally from the area, or did you wind up there through work?

Target: Oh, I moved around a bit when I was younger. Actually, I was born while my folks were stationed overseas. We bounced back when I was still in diapers—my dad was keen on bringing us back to his roots out here in the States.

Other: That’s interesting. Do you think growing up with that kind of background shaped your perspective on making a home where you are now?

Target: It did. It’s funny, I always felt a little bit like the odd one out—stories from my folks about traveling, living where the language is different. But since coming back, this place is where I’ve built my routines, planted my roots both literally and figuratively. The heat’s not for everyone, but it feels like home. Plus, I get to watch the sunsets over the rocks, and you don’t get that anywhere else.

Other: I can only imagine. So, speaking of home and roots—do you have family nearby, or are you more on your own these days?

Target: Good question. It’s been a bit of a transition, actually. I’ve been flying solo for a stretch now—my partner and I decided to take some space. It’s just me and the house these days, which has its ups and downs. Privacy is nice, but you notice how quiet it gets in the evenings.

Other: That’s always an adjustment. Do you feel like you have a good support network, friends or folks you can lean on?

Target: Yeah, my sister’s close, and there’s always someone to call if something breaks down or I need to get out of the house. Plus, the community here is pretty tight-knit—neighbors check in, ask after the yard, sometimes bring over odd jobs. It helps, especially when routines change and you’re figuring out the solo thing again.

Other: Sounds like you’ve made the best of it. You mentioned earlier the quiet evenings—is that something you value, or would you rather keep busy?

Target: It’s a mix. Some evenings, I’m glad for the peace—a little music, a good view out back, and I’m content. Other nights, I can’t help but pace around, looking for something to sweep or organize. I guess when you’ve spent decades pushing a mower or trimming hedges, your hands expect to stay busy.

Other: I hear that. Life’s rhythms can really shift, especially when routines get shaken up. Are there things you miss the most from being part of a duo, or is there something about this chapter you’re appreciating now?

Target: Missing the little things, honestly. The shorthand in conversation, shared chores, someone to bounce meal ideas off of… it’s the partnership I feel in the quiet moments. But I can’t complain too much; there’s a lot to discover about what I enjoy on my own, whether it’s trying out new yard designs, or just watching a game on TV without having to negotiate the channel.

Other: Absolutely. Sometimes you find new hobbies or reconnect with old ones. Have you picked up anything new in this stretch of downtime? Maybe something beyond the usual planting and trimming?

Target: I’ve tried my hand at sketching again—figured I’d try to capture that mountain line at dusk—and got into tinkering with small repairs around the house. If I can fix a sprinkler, maybe I can fix a broken lamp, right? And when I get tired of that, I’ll just drive out to the edges of town and see how the wildflowers are doing. The desert has its own kind of beauty each month.

Other: That’s great. Sounds like you’re really making the most of your environment and spare time. Shifting gears a bit—do you find that your background, growing up with some travel and then settling where you did, influences how you approach work or relationships?

Target: I think so. Being around new places when I was a kid taught me to adapt and pick things up quickly. I’m patient with changes, and I don’t get too attached to things staying one way forever. In the yard, that means switching up how I water when the rules change; in life, it’s learning to be happy with what’s in season, so to speak.

Other: That’s a great mindset. With the transitions you’ve faced in the past year, what are you hoping the next few months will bring? Are you eager to jump back into a steady routine, or enjoying this in-between time?

Target: I’m ready to get moving again. I’ve enjoyed the pause, but at heart, I’m someone who needs to see progress—whether it’s a growing garden or a packed work schedule. Hoping a few calls come through, maybe take on some new properties. The feeling of a job well done is what keeps me centered.

Other: Sounds like you’d be a great fit for anyone who needs a real pro to keep their grounds in shape. If you were to market yourself for a new gig, what would you highlight about what you do?

Target: I’d probably say no job’s too small and that I treat every space like it’s my own. Whether it’s installing drought-friendly landscaping, patching up a fence, or just keeping debris off the walk, I pay attention to the details. I care about making things last and look right. I figure that sets me apart—a lot of people want it fast, I want it done right.

Other: That’s the attitude folks look for. I know you mentioned the rec center earlier—have you thought about working with city parks or golf courses, something on a bigger scale?

Target: I’d love to, honestly. Open spaces give you room to really make a mark. A buddy of mine has been with the local municipal parks for years—he says it’s steady work but comes with early mornings and plenty of sunburns. I’m not scared of the hours or the heat, though; something about seeing a whole field cleaned up and green is unbeatable.

Other: Maybe you’ll have a chance to get involved, especially as folks return to public spaces more these days. Out of curiosity, do you ever take your work on the road, or stick mainly close to home?

Target: Mostly around my own area—distance makes it tricky when you’re hauling equipment, after all. My truck’s reliable, but with gas prices here, I try not to drive too far out of the valley unless there’s a really interesting job. Sometimes I’ll visit my sister up north, but I’m a desert dweller these days.

Other: I understand. Sounds like you’re very settled in your community. Do you ever see yourself relocating again, or is this pretty much home base for good?

Target: Never say never, but this place grows on you—pun intended. The combination of hot days, clear nights, and those stubborn plants that survive in almost anything—it’s unique. Plus, after moving cities and countries as a kid, it’s nice settling into a rhythm surrounded by familiar faces. The sagebrush out back is as close to permanent as I get.

Other: That’s a great perspective. Before we wrap up, is there anything you’re hoping for, either in your work life or personally, as you look ahead?

Target: I’d like to be busy again soon—regular work, clients who need their spaces kept up. But I also want to keep making time for myself, appreciate the slower evenings, maybe even teach another class at the rec center. And, who knows? Maybe branch out, meet new people. Life changes, and I’m learning to take it all in stride.

Other: I really appreciate you sharing all this. You’ve given me a lot to think about, both for what I might recommend and how people adapt to all sorts of twists in the road. If you need a reference, or someone to bounce ideas off, you know where to find me.

Target: Thank you, that means a lot. I’ll keep you posted—maybe next time, I’ll have some new projects to show off. Until then, I’ll just keep trying to coax the fountain grass back to life and hope for some rain.

Other: Sounds like a plan. Stay in touch, and take care out there in that sun.

Target: Will do. Have a good one.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_184 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Black-winged lapwing

The black-winged lapwing  or greater black-winged lapwing (Vanellus melanopterus) is an east African species that is found from the Ethiopian highlands in the north to central Kenya (race V. m. melanopterus), and again at middle to coastal elevations in eastern South Africa (race V. m. minor). It is a habitat specialist of short grass in well-watered temperate grasslands. They may move about locally to find ideal situations, often at night. In their tightly grouped flying flocks they resemble plovers.

Description
A black breast band separates the lapwing's grey head and neck from the white underside.  The wing coverts are brown. It has a variable but prominent white forehead patch similar to its near relative, the Senegal lapwing, but in contrast shows a prominent white wingbar in flight, bordered by black remiges. The two species are also separated by their respective habitat preferences, the Senegal lapwing preferring lower, mostly drier locations.

Habits and breeding
The black-winged lapwing behaves somewhat like the similar-sized but more generally occurring crowned lapwing and the two species sometimes occur in mixed flocks.

The leg colour brightens during the spring breeding season, when the birds sometimes move to higher elevations.  Males show mutual aggression at this time and establish territories by calling and display flights which may include exaggerated wing beats. A receptive female will follow the male in flight and copulation may follow soon after. The top of a slope in burnt grassland is a favourite location for nesting.

The eggs are fairly large and dark in colour. Incubation starts when the clutch of usually 3 is complete. The adults relay one another in shifts of about 90 minutes. Insulating nest lining is added periodically to the well-lined nest until the eggs are half buried. The young hatch in just under a month and require about another month to become self-sufficient.

Food and territories

Black-winged lapwings hunt termites on the ground, which constitutes a large part of their diet. They also take tenebrionid beetles and ants, and in captivity prefer earthworms and mealworms. Feeding territories of smaller than one hectare are defended by small groups of these birds. Newly found territories are most aggressively defended through vocal and visual threat displays or aerial mobbing. Large groups however form non-territorial flocks when ample habitat is found.

Conservation status
Human activities impact both positively and negatively on this species; it is not endangered. The black-winged lapwing is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies.

References

 
 Hockey P.A.R., Douie C. 1995. Waders of southern Africa
 Marchant J., Prater T., Hayman P. 1986. Shorebirds: An identification guide
 Sinclair I., Ryan P. 2003. Birds of Africa south of the Sahara
 Tarboton W. 2001. Nests & Eggs of Southern African Birds
 Ward, D. Black-winged Plover. In: The atlas of southern African birds. Vol. 1: Non-passerines

External links
 Black-winged plover - Species text in The Atlas of Southern African Birds.

black-winged lapwing
Birds of Sub-Saharan Africa
black-winged lapwing
black-winged lapwing
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-95 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! I’ve been feeling a bit stuck on a research project lately and could use a hand brainstorming. As someone in the realm of biological sciences, sometimes it helps to get a different perspective. 

Chatbot: Of course, I’d be glad to help out! Could you tell me a bit about the area you’re researching and where you’re running into roadblocks?

Person: Sure. I’m working on a project dealing with protein folding, and while I’ve looked at recent literature and tried a few computational models, the results haven’t been making much sense. I’ve only got my bachelor’s so far, and sometimes I feel like the grad school-level papers go way over my head.

Chatbot: That’s understandable, those papers can be dense! You mentioned trying computational models—are you focusing more on structure prediction, or are you analyzing misfolding diseases?

Person: Mostly structure prediction for now. My supervisor thought it’d be valuable to look into applications for neurodegenerative diseases later, but that’s a ways off. I’m currently using some standard methods, but I grew up outside the US and sometimes feel like I’m missing some networking that other American scientists get growing up here.

Chatbot: That’s an interesting insight—international perspectives can really bring innovative ideas, though. Are there resources or support networks you wish you had more access to? Maybe I can suggest some online communities or forums.

Person: Honestly, yes! Back when I was living in Europe, science communities felt more structured; coming to WA was a bit of an adjustment. I’ve been using Reddit and a few Slack channels, but sometimes it’s hard to break into the local bio-sci community as a guy who wasn't born here, even though my folks are both US citizens.

Chatbot: That’s great you’re reaching out—networking across borders can give you a unique perspective. It sounds like your move to the Pacific Northwest was a big transition. Are there any regional conferences or university groups in Washington you’ve tried engaging with?

Person: I went to a conference in Seattle last month; met a few folks from UW but the field still feels small out here. California’s big in this space, but over here in WA, it’s a bit quieter. By the way, if you know any local meetups or webinars, I’d love some heads up.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I can look those up for you. Also, if you’re comfortable sharing, sometimes direct contact details can help connect you with local groups or professionals.

Person: That works for me. I can be reached at five-oh-nine, nine-three-eight, four-four-eight-zero. I’ve also thought about cold emailing researchers for advice, but I never know how that’ll go as someone with just a bachelor’s under his belt. 

Chatbot: Reaching out can be intimidating, but many researchers appreciate proactive communication—sometimes your unique perspective as someone who grew up abroad can really stand out. Can you tell me more about how your background influences your work or questions you ask?

Person: For sure. Being someone who was born overseas but grew up in an American household, I sometimes see research problems through a different lens. For example, I’ve got a little more insight into European biobank datasets and collaborations, which seems less common among other folks here in WA. It helps, but sometimes it’s hard to bridge the gap in scientific culture.

Chatbot: That diversity can be a strength! On another note, as a man in the sciences, have you noticed any challenges or perks, or do you feel the playing field is pretty even in your area?

Person: Ha, well, as the guy who always volunteers to present at lab meetings, sometimes I feel lucky, but sometimes there’s an expectation to know everything. I go by Mr. in most formal situations—there aren’t too many of us “Misters” in the undergrad-heavy bio labs, so I stick out a bit.

Chatbot: I see! That gives you a distinct identity in your group. Getting back to your project, have you considered leveraging open-source datasets for protein simulations, maybe crowdsourcing help from non-traditional channels as well?

Person: I haven’t, but that’s a good tip. Most of my computational work so far has been through data provided by postdocs in our department, but I hadn’t thought about tapping into open-source resources. If you know where to start, let me know. Sometimes navigating these avenues on my own in this corner of the US is tricky.

Chatbot: If you’re based in the Evergreen State, a few universities run online portals for local scientists to collaborate on such projects, and the Pacific Science Center sometimes does outreach with university partners. Do you want tailored info for your area?

Person: Yeah, sending anything relevant to somewhere in the state of WA would be super helpful. Sometimes being out here in eastern Washington makes me feel like I’m a bit isolated from the main research stream.

Chatbot: I understand that—being in the less urban side of things can make networking tougher. Maybe you could consider virtual groups as well. Would it help if I drafted an introductory message to reach out to new contacts, or even a template for a research inquiry?

Person: That’d be great. Also, if you wouldn’t mind, the best way to reach me is via text or call—just remember the digits I mentioned: 509, then 938, then 4480. I’m always looking for ways to make professional connections without being too formal.

Chatbot: Noted! I’ll put together a sample message you can tweak, plus a list of Washington-based online groups that cater specifically to biological science folks, especially those at the bachelor’s level or early in their careers.

Person: Perfect, I’ll really appreciate that. Sometimes being in this odd spot—born abroad but totally an American by descent, and now making my career as a bio scientist with just my undergrad degree—makes it a little hard to know where I fit in. But I’m excited to connect and grow.

Chatbot: That background gives you a lot to offer—don’t underestimate the value of your experiences. I’ll follow up with those resources and some outreach tips. And remember, sometimes being the outlier means you see what others can’t. 

Person: Thanks, that actually means a lot. I look forward to those suggestions, and if you need anything else from me to tailor the info, just say the word.

Chatbot: You’re welcome! You’ll have my message with everything you need soon. Don’t hesitate to check in if new questions come up.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-97 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! I was wondering if you have any suggestions on how to stay focused during long stretches at work. I work in an office, spending most of the day supporting loan applications and going through paperwork as a clerk. Sometimes I just zone out and lose momentum.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Office environments where you’re handling forms and data entry, like when you’re supporting loans, can be mentally draining. One tip is to break your day into focused intervals—try 25 minutes of work with a 5-minute break between. You could also personalize your workspace to make it a bit more inviting or play soft music if your office allows it. Have you tried any of these before?

Person: I’ve done the Pomodoro thing here and there, but sometimes my break gets cut short when a manager needs a file or if someone calls with an urgent question. It comes with the job, you know? I do try to keep a bit of green around—got a small plant from my daughter on my desk. Seems to help lift my mood.

Chatbot: That’s a nice touch! Desk plants can improve your mood and even the air quality a little. Since you frequently get interrupted, maybe jotting down exactly where you left off before you switch tasks could help you get back on track quicker. Do you find a lot of your day is spent multitasking?

Person: Oh, all the time. Multitasking is basically in the job description, I think. Between fielding calls, helping customers fill out loan applications, and tracking down files from that ancient cabinet in the corner—my head gets pretty full. I finished high school a while ago, but nobody really warns you in school about just how much time you’ll spend searching for paperwork.

Chatbot: You’re right, the realities of office work often come as a surprise. It sounds like you’re handling a lot. Have you considered digital organization tools, like spreadsheets or workflow apps, to keep track of tasks and files? Or is your office more old-school with the way things are run?

Person: We have computers, but a good portion is still paper. Our system’s a bit behind the times, and a lot of customers still like to hand things in on paper. I do use Excel for myself, just to keep sane, but officially, it’s all files and folders. Kind of funny, isn’t it? When I graduated back in the late ’80s, we were barely using computers at all in school, and now they’re everywhere—except where I need them most!

Chatbot: Technology can be a mixed bag! It’s impressive how you’ve adapted, especially if you left high school before computers were commonplace. With your role supporting loan applications, have you developed any favorite tips for helping clients feel comfortable during the process?

Person: I tell people to bring as much info as they can, and not to stress if they forget something—there’s always a way to track it down. I’ve been doing this since before some of my coworkers were born, starting not long after I turned 18, so you pick up a few tricks. I try to empathize—some folks get nervous, but I joke about how I’ve seen almost every way a form can be filled out wrong, so they don’t have to worry about making a mistake.

Chatbot: That’s a great approach! Your experience really shines through. Do you find your routine has changed much over the years, or is it largely the same day-to-day?

Person: The rhythm is regular, but paperwork never seems to shrink! I’m at the office most weekdays, clocking in early, still going strong. I like being in the flow and keeping busy—and I’ve always been one for routine jobs ever since I got my first full-time role. In a way, being a working woman in this sort of admin support has let me contribute steadily to my family and stay connected to the community.

Chatbot: That’s really inspiring. Balancing a career and family takes skill. With March coming up, do you do anything special around your birthday? Some people love to celebrate, others like a quiet night in.

Person: Oh, I do look forward to March every year, especially the 18th! Even if it falls on a workday, I try to treat myself—maybe some carrot cake after dinner or a movie night with my husband and daughter. It feels like a little reward for making it through the winter, honestly.

Chatbot: That sounds like a lovely tradition. There’s something special about marking your own day, even with something simple. On the topic of rewards, do you have any words of advice for someone just starting out in clerical or loan processing jobs?

Person: Make lists, learn to tune out the noise, and don’t be afraid to ask for help. When I got my high school diploma and started my first proper office job, I was pretty lost at first. But with patience, you get the hang of the flow. Also, try to memorize the important numbers—it helps, like knowing where your files are and even, you know, remembering your own social. I still have mine memorized by how I’d break it up: 188, then 36, then 7-5-8-0. Comes in handy more often than you’d think.

Chatbot: That’s excellent practical advice! And good point about memorizing important numbers for quick paperwork. It sounds like your experience—not just on the job, but with life in general—is invaluable.

Person: Well, thank you! Life’s taught me a few things since ’69, I guess. I find that staying upbeat, being organized, and keeping a sense of humor go a long way in the workplace. Oh, and keeping up with questions my daughter throws at me—she’s always asking how to handle taxes and stuff, so my clerical skills get a workout even at home!

Chatbot: That’s fantastic. It must be rewarding to share your know-how with your family too. If you have any other work or personal questions, feel free to ask—I’m always happy to help!

Person: I’ll remember that! Thanks for all the tips and the listening ear. Sometimes it just helps to talk things out—even virtually.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome. Remember, a positive attitude like yours is one of the best tools you can have. Have a wonderful day at work!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_225 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Ecological stoichiometry

Ecological stoichiometry (more broadly referred to as biological stoichiometry) considers how the balance of energy and elements influences living systems. Similar to chemical stoichiometry, ecological stoichiometry is founded on constraints of mass balance as they apply to organisms and their interactions in ecosystems. Specifically, how does the balance of energy and elements affect and how is this balance affected by organisms and their interactions. Concepts of ecological stoichiometry have a long history in ecology with early references to the constraints of mass balance made by Liebig, Lotka, and Redfield. These earlier concepts have been extended to explicitly link the elemental physiology of organisms to their food web interactions and ecosystem function.

Most work in ecological stoichiometry focuses on the interface between an organism and its resources. This interface, whether it is between plants and their nutrient resources or large herbivores and grasses, is often characterized by dramatic differences in the elemental composition of each part. The difference, or mismatch, between the elemental demands of organisms and the elemental composition of resources leads to an elemental imbalance. Consider termites, which have a tissue carbon:nitrogen ratio (C:N) of about 5 yet consume wood with a C:N ratio of 300–1000. Ecological stoichiometry primarily asks:
 why do elemental imbalances arise in nature?
 how is consumer physiology and life-history affected by elemental imbalances? and
 what are the subsequent effects on ecosystem processes?

Elemental imbalances arise for a number of physiological and evolutionary reasons related to the differences in the biological make up of organisms, such as differences in types and amounts of macromolecules, organelles, and tissues. Organisms differ in the flexibility of their biological make up and therefore in the degree to which organisms can maintain a constant chemical composition in the face of variations in their resources. Variations in resources can be related to the types of needed resources, their relative availability in time and space, and how they are acquired. The ability to maintain internal chemical composition despite changes in the chemical composition and availability of resources is referred to as "stoichiometric homeostasis".  Like the general biological notion of homeostasis, elemental homeostasis refers to the maintenance of elemental composition within some biologically ordered range.  Photoautotrophic organisms, such as algae and vascular plants, can exhibit a very wide range of physiological plasticity in elemental composition and thus have relatively weak stoichiometric homeostasis.  In contrast, other organisms, such as multicellular animals, have close to strict homeostasis and they can be thought of as having distinct chemical composition. For example, carbon to phosphorus ratios in the suspended organic matter in lakes (i.e., algae, bacteria, and detritus) can vary between 100 and 1000 whereas C:P ratios of Daphnia, a crustacean zooplankton, remain nearly constant at 80:1. The general differences in stoichiometric homeostasis between plants and animals can lead to large and variable elemental imbalances between consumers and resources.

Ecological stoichiometry seeks to discover how the chemical content of organisms shapes their ecology.  Ecological stoichiometry has been applied to studies of nutrient recycling, resource competition, animal growth, and nutrient limitation patterns in whole ecosystems. The Redfield ratio of the world's oceans is one very famous application of stoichiometric principles to ecology. Ecological stoichiometry also considers phenomena at the sub-cellular level, such as the P-content of a ribosome, as well as phenomena at the whole biosphere level, such as the oxygen content of Earth's atmosphere.

To date the research framework of ecological stoichiometry stimulated research in various fields of biology, ecology,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_6 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Adiabatic process

In thermodynamics, an adiabatic process (Greek: adiábatos, "impassable") is a type of thermodynamic process that occurs without transferring heat or mass between the thermodynamic system and its environment. Unlike an isothermal process, an adiabatic process transfers energy to the surroundings only as work. As a key concept in thermodynamics, the adiabatic process supports the theory that explains the first law of thermodynamics.

Some chemical and physical processes occur too rapidly for energy to enter or leave the system as heat, allowing a convenient "adiabatic approximation". For example, the adiabatic flame temperature uses this approximation to calculate the upper limit of flame temperature by assuming combustion loses no heat to its surroundings.

In meteorology and oceanography, adiabatic expanding produces condensation of moisture or salinity, oversaturating the parcel. Therefore, the excess must be removed. There, the process becomes a pseudo-adiabatic process whereby the liquid water or salt that condenses is assumed to be removed upon formation by idealized instantaneous precipitation. The pseudoadiabatic process is only defined for expansion because a compressed parcel becomes warmer and remains undersaturated.

Description

A process without transfer of heat to or from a system, so that , is called adiabatic, and such a system is said to be adiabatically isolated. The simplifying assumption frequently made is that a process is adiabatic. For example, the compression of a gas within a cylinder of an engine is assumed to occur so rapidly that on the time scale of the compression process, little of the system's energy can be transferred out as heat to the surroundings. Even though the cylinders are not insulated and are quite conductive, that process is idealized to be adiabatic. The same can be said to be true for the expansion process of such a system.

The assumption of adiabatic isolation is useful and often combined with other such idealizations to calculate a good first approximation of a system's behaviour. For example, according to Laplace, when sound travels in a gas, there is no time for heat conduction in the medium, and so the propagation of sound is adiabatic. For such an adiabatic process, the modulus of elasticity (Young's modulus) can be expressed as , where  is the ratio of specific heats at constant pressure and at constant volume () and  is the pressure of the gas.

Various applications of the adiabatic assumption 

For a closed system, one may write the first law of thermodynamics as , where  denotes the change of the system's internal energy,  the quantity of energy added to it as heat, and  the work done by the system on its surroundings.

If the system has such rigid walls that work cannot be transferred in or out (), and the walls are not adiabatic and energy is added in the form of heat (), and there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise.
If the system has such rigid walls that pressure–volume work cannot be done, but the walls are adiabatic (), and energy is added as isochoric (constant volume) work in the form of friction or the stirring of a viscous fluid within the system (), and there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise.
If the system walls are adiabatic () but not rigid (), and, in a fictive idealized process, energy is added to the system in the form of frictionless, non-viscous pressure–volume work (), and there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise. Such a process is called an isentropic process and is said to be "reversible". Ideally, if the process were reversed the energy could be recovered entirely as work done by the system. If the system contains a compressible gas and is reduced in volume, the uncertainty of the position of the gas is reduced, and seemingly would reduce the entropy of the system, but the temperature of the system will rise as the process is isentropic (). Should the work be...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_220 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# 2-Ethylhexanol

2-Ethylhexanol (abbreviated 2-EH) is an organic compound with formula CHO. It is a branched, eight-carbon chiral alcohol. It is a colorless liquid that is poorly soluble in water but soluble in most organic solvents. It is produced on a large scale (>2,000,000,000 kg/y) for use in numerous applications such as solvents, flavors, and fragrances and especially as a precursor for production of other chemicals such as emollients and plasticizers. It is encountered in plants, fruits, and wines. The odor has been reported as "heavy, earthy, and slightly floral" for the R enantiomer and "a light, sweet floral fragrance" for the S enantiomer.

Properties and applications
The branching in 2-ethylhexanol inhibits crystallization. Esters of 2-ethylhexanol are similarly affected, which together with low volatility, is the basis of applications in the production of plasticizers and lubricants, where its presence helps reduce viscosity and lower freezing points. Because 2-ethylhexanol is a fatty alcohol, its esters have emollient properties. Representative is the diester bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), commonly used in PVC. The triester tris (2-Ethylhexyl) trimellitate (TOTM) is another common plasticizer produced via the esterification of three 2-ethylhexanol per trimellitic acid.

It is also commonly used as a low volatility solvent. 2-Ethylhexanol can also be used as a cetane improver when reacted with nitric acid. It also used to react with epichlorohydrin and sodium hydroxide to produce 2-Ethylhexyl glycidyl ether which is then used as an epoxy reactive diluent in various coatings, adhesives and sealants applications. It can be used in the development of photos, production of rubber and extraction of oil and gas.

Industrial production
2-Ethylhexanol is produced industrially by the aldol condensation of n-butyraldehyde, followed by hydrogenation of the resulting hydroxyaldehyde.  About 2,500,000 tons are prepared in this way annually.

The n-butyraldehyde is made by hydroformylation of propylene, either in a self-contained plant or as the first step in a fully integrated facility.  Most facilities make n-butanol and isobutanol in addition to 2-ethylhexanol. Alcohols prepared in this way are sometimes referred to as oxo alcohols. The overall process is very similar to that of the Guerbet reaction, by which it may also be produced.

Health effects
2-Ethylhexanol exhibits low toxicity in animal models, with LD50 ranging from 2-3 g/kg (rat). 2-Ethylhexanol has been identified as a cause of indoor air quality related health problems, such as respiratory system irritation, as a volatile organic compound. 2-Ethylhexanol is emitted to air from a PVC flooring installed on concrete that had not been dried properly.

2-Ethylhexanol has been linked to developmental toxicity (increased incidence of skeletal malformations in fetuses).  This is thought to be a result of metabolism of 2-ethylhexanol into 2-ethylhexanoic acid via oxidation of the primary alcohol.  The teratogenicity of 2-ethylhexanoic acid, as well as similar substances such as valproic acid, has been well established.

Nomenclature
Although isooctanol (and the derived isooctyl prefix) is commonly used in industry to refer to 2-ethylhexanol and its derivatives, IUPAC naming conventions dictate that this name is properly applied to another isomer of octanol, 6-methylheptan-1-ol. The Chemical Abstracts Service likewise indexes isooctanol (CAS# 26952-21-6) as 6-methylheptan-1-ol.

See also
2-Ethylhexanoic acid

References

External links
 Isooctyl alcohol, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

Alcohol solvents
Alkanols
Primary alcohols
Ethyl compounds
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_273 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Spherical harmonic lighting

Spherical harmonic (SH) lighting is a family of real-time rendering techniques that can produce highly realistic shading and shadowing with comparatively little overhead.  All SH lighting techniques involve replacing parts of standard lighting equations with spherical functions that have been projected into frequency space using the spherical harmonics as a basis. To take a simple example, a cube map used for environment mapping might be reduced to just nine SH coefficients if preserving high-frequency detail is not a concern. 

More intriguing techniques use SH to encode multiple functions—usually the global lighting environment and a per-vertex radiance transfer function. The generalized lighting equation involves, among other things, integrating the product of the incoming radiance and the BRDF over a sphere—something that is far too expensive for real-time rendering. But if the two functions are projected into SH coefficients, the integral of their product over the sphere is just the dot product of the two SH coefficient vectors. Generating the per-vertex transfer functions and projecting them to SH space is still an expensive process, but evaluating them is almost trivial. More to the point, they can be evaluated correctly even if the lighting environment changes in intensity or orientation. Even the most complex ray-traced radiosity algorithm can be rendered in real-time with dynamically changing lighting. 

SH lighting using preprocessed coefficients produces results that are beautiful but limited. Typically the lighting can change, or the lit mesh can be rotated, but the mesh can't be translated or deformed without requiring a new set of per-vertex coefficients. More recent techniques split the lighting equation into more parts and introduce techniques for updating SH components in real time or learn a transfer function which maps from shape deformations to updated per-vertex coefficients. 

Representing scene illumination using SH is increasingly popular in the field of neural rendering as the illumination in a scene can be predicted and manipulated using deep neural networks.

See also 
 Precomputed Radiance Transfer
 Radiosity
 Comprehensive Overview

References 

Shading
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_216 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Card reader

A card reader is a data input device that reads data from a card-shaped storage medium. The first were punched card readers, which read the paper or cardboard punched cards that were used during the first several decades of the computer industry to store information and programs for computer systems. Modern card readers are electronic devices that can read plastic cards embedded with either a barcode, magnetic strip, computer chip or another storage medium.

A memory card reader is a device used for communication with a smart card or a memory card.
A magnetic card reader is a device used to read magnetic stripe cards, such as credit cards.
A business card reader is a device used to scan and electronically save printed business cards.

Smart card readers 

A smart card reader is an electronic device that reads smart cards and can be found in the following form:

 Keyboards with a built-in card reader
 External devices and internal drive bay card reader devices for personal computers (PC)
 Laptop models containing a built-in smart card reader and/or using flash upgradeable firmware.

External devices that can read a Personal identification number (PIN) or other information may also be connected to a keyboard (usually called "card readers with PIN pad"). This model works by supplying the integrated circuit on the smart card with electricity and communicating via protocols, thereby enabling the user to read and write to a fixed address on the card.

If the card does not use any standard transmission protocol, but uses a custom/proprietary protocol, it has the communication protocol designation T=14.

The latest PC/SC CCID specifications define a new smart card framework. This framework works with USB devices with the specific device class 0x0B. Readers with this class do not need device drivers when used with PC/SC-compliant operating systems, because the operating system supplies the driver by default.

PKCS#11 is an API designed to be platform-independent, defining a generic interface to cryptographic tokens such as smart cards. This allows applications to work without knowledge of the reader details.

Memory card readers 

A memory card reader is a device, typically having a USB interface, for accessing the data on a memory card such as a CompactFlash (CF), Secure Digital (SD) or MultiMediaCard (MMC). Most card readers also offer write capability, and together with the card, this can function as a pen drive.

Access control card reader 
Access control card readers are used in physical security systems to read a credential that allows access through access control points, typically a locked door. An access control reader can be a magnetic stripe reader,  a bar code reader, a proximity reader, a smart card reader, or a biometric reader.

Access control readers are classified by functions they are able to perform and by identification technology:

Barcode
A barcode is a series of alternating dark and light stripes that are read by an optical scanner.  The organization and width of the lines is determined by the bar code protocol selected.  There are many different protocols, such as the prevalent Code 39. Sometimes the digits represented by the dark and light bars are also printed to allow people to read the number without an optical reader.

The advantage of using barcode technology is that it is cheap and easy to generate the credential and it can easily be applied to cards or other items.  However the same affordability and simplicity makes the technology susceptible to fraud, because fake barcodes can also be created cheaply and easily, for example by photocopying real ones. One attempt to reduce fraud is to print the barcode using carbon-based ink, and then cover the bar code with a dark red overlay. The barcode can then be read with an optical reader tuned to the infrared spectrum, but can not easily be copied by a copy machine. This does not address the ease with which barcode numbers can be generated from a computer using...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_248 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Multiple single-level

Multiple single-level or multi-security level (MSL) is a means to separate different levels of data by using separate computers or virtual machines for each level. It aims to give some of the benefits of multilevel security without needing special changes to the OS or applications, but at the cost of needing extra hardware.

The drive to develop MLS operating systems was severely hampered by the dramatic fall in data processing costs in the early 1990s. Before the advent of desktop computing, users with classified processing requirements had to either spend a lot of money for a dedicated computer or use one that hosted an MLS operating system. Throughout the 1990s, however, many offices in the defense and intelligence communities took advantage of falling computing costs to deploy desktop systems classified to operate only at the highest classification level used in their organization. These desktop computers operated in system high mode and were connected with LANs that carried traffic at the same level as the computers.

MSL implementations such as these neatly avoided the complexities of MLS but traded off technical simplicity for inefficient use of space. Because most users in classified environments also needed unclassified systems, users often had at least two computers and sometimes more (one for unclassified processing and one for each classification level processed). In addition, each computer was connected to its own LAN at the appropriate classification level, meaning that multiple dedicated cabling plants were incorporated (at considerable cost in terms of both installation and maintenance).

Limits of MSL versus MLS
The obvious shortcoming of MSL (as compared to MLS) is that it does not support immixture of various classification levels in any manner. For example, the notion of concatenating a SECRET data stream (taken from a SECRET file) with a TOP SECRET data stream (read from a TOP SECRET file) and directing the resultant TOP SECRET data stream into a TOP SECRET file is unsupported. In essence, an MSL system can be thought of as a set of parallel (and collocated) computer systems, each restricted to operation at one, and only one, security level. Indeed, the individual MSL operating systems may not even understand the concept of security levels, since they operate as single-level systems. For example, while one of a set of collocated MSL OS may be configured to affix the character string "SECRET" to all output, that OS has no understanding of how the data compares in sensitivity and criticality to the data processed by its peer OS that affixes the string "UNCLASSIFIED" to all of its output.

Operating across two or more security levels then, must use methods extraneous to the purview of the MSL "operating systems" per se, and needing human intervention, termed "manual review". For example, an independent monitor (not in Brinch Hansen's sense of the term) may be provided to support migration of data among multiple MSL peers (e.g., copying a data file from the UNCLASSIFIED peer to the SECRET peer). Although no strict requirements by way of federal legislation specifically address the concern, it would be appropriate for such a monitor to be quite small, purpose-built, and supportive of only a small number of very rigidly defined operations, such as importing and exporting files, configuring output labels, and other maintenance/administration tasks that require handling all the collocated MSL peers as a unit rather than as individual, single-level systems. It may also be appropriate to utilize a hypervisor software architecture, such as VMware, to provide a set of peer MSL "OS" in the form of distinct, virtualized environments supported by an underlying OS that is only accessible to administrators cleared for all of the data managed by any of the peers. From the users' perspectives, each peer would present a login or X display manager session logically indistinguishable from the underlying "maintenance OS" user...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_22 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Book

A book is a medium for recording information in the form of writing or images, typically composed of many pages (made of papyrus, parchment, vellum, or paper) bound together and protected by a cover. It can also be a  handwritten or printed work of fiction or nonfiction, usually on sheets of paper fastened or bound together within covers. The technical term for this physical arrangement is codex (plural, codices). In the history of hand-held physical supports for extended written compositions or records, the codex replaces its predecessor, the scroll. A single sheet in a codex is a leaf and each side of a leaf is a page.

As an intellectual object, a book is prototypically a composition of such great length that it takes a considerable investment of time to compose and still considered as an investment of time to read. In a restricted sense, a book is a self-sufficient section or part of a longer composition, a usage reflecting that, in antiquity, long works had to be written on several scrolls and each scroll had to be identified by the book it contained. Each part of Aristotle's Physics is called a book. In an unrestricted sense, a book is the compositional whole of which such sections, whether called books or chapters or parts, are parts.

The intellectual content in a physical book need not be a composition, nor even be called a book. Books can consist only of drawings, engravings or photographs, crossword puzzles or cut-out dolls. In a physical book, the pages can be left blank or can feature an abstract set of lines to support entries, such as in an account book, appointment book, autograph book, notebook, diary or sketchbook. Some physical books are made with pages thick and sturdy enough to support other physical objects, like a scrapbook or photograph album. Books may be distributed in electronic form as ebooks and other formats.

Although in ordinary academic parlance a monograph is understood to be a specialist academic work, rather than a reference work on a scholarly subject, in library and information science monograph denotes more broadly any non-serial publication complete in one volume (book) or a finite number of volumes (even a novel like Proust's seven-volume In Search of Lost Time), in contrast to serial publications like a magazine, journal or newspaper. An avid reader or collector of books is a bibliophile or, colloquially, "bookworm". Books are traded at both regular stores and specialized bookstores, and people can read borrowed books, often for free, at libraries. Google has estimated that by 2010, approximately 130,000,000 titles had been published.

In some wealthier nations, the sale of printed books has decreased because of the increased usage of e-books. However, in most countries, printed books continue to outsell their digital counterparts due to many people still preferring to read in a traditional way. The 21st century has also seen a rapid rise in the popularity of audiobooks, which are recordings of books being read aloud.

Etymology 
The word book comes from Old English , which in turn comes from the Germanic root , cognate to 'beech'. In Slavic languages like Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian  —'letter' is cognate with 'beech'. In Russian, Serbian and Macedonian, the word  () or  () refers to a primary school textbook that helps young children master the techniques of reading and writing. It is thus conjectured that the earliest Indo-European writings may have been carved on beech wood. The Latin word , meaning a book in the modern sense (bound and with separate leaves), originally meant 'block of wood'.

History

Antiquity 

When writing systems were created in ancient civilizations, a variety of objects, such as stone, clay, tree bark, metal sheets, and bones, were used for writing; these are studied in epigraphy.

Tablet 

A tablet is a physically robust writing medium, suitable for casual transport and writing. Clay tablets were flattened and mostly dry pieces of clay that could be...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-78 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me on such short notice.

Doctor: Good morning! Not a problem at all. What brings you in today?

Patient: Lately, I’ve been having some trouble sleeping, and my energy feels unusually low. I figured I’d better check in, just to make sure it’s nothing serious.

Doctor: I’m glad you came in. How long have you been experiencing these issues with sleep and low energy?

Patient: It’s been a couple of weeks now. I haven’t changed much with my routine, but I've noticed that even when I do get a full night’s sleep, I wake up feeling exhausted.

Doctor: Has anything significant changed recently—any new stressors or lifestyle changes? Sometimes those can impact energy levels and sleep quality.

Patient: Hmm, not really. I’m still in the armed forces and technically have a job, but at the moment I’m not at work. I’ve been placed on temporary leave, so maybe this change in structure is affecting me more than I realized.

Doctor: That makes sense—big changes in your daily schedule can definitely throw things off. You mentioned you’re in the armed forces. Can you describe your role or occupation more specifically?

Patient: My occupation is a military one—just military, rank not specified, to be honest. I can’t disclose much more due to confidentiality, but I’m usually quite active in my role.

Doctor: Understood. Are you facing any challenges adjusting to being away from your normal duties?

Patient: Definitely. Being away from my unit and regular activities is so different. I think the lack of structured routines is contributing to my mood and sleep issues.

Doctor: That’s completely understandable. Discipline and structure are integral parts of military life. With that in mind, do you have any support—friends, family, or anyone close—helping you adjust during this period?

Patient: I don’t really have family nearby, and I’ve never been married, so my support system is mostly friends from service. They’re a good group, but everyone’s busy with their own assignments right now.

Doctor: I see. Social support is always important. Have you ever experienced similar difficulties before, like trouble sleeping or feelings of low energy, perhaps during your training or deployments?

Patient: I had some tough nights during training for sure, but nothing that lasted this long. Maybe the forced downtime is just making it more obvious.

Doctor: Regarding your health background, could you talk a bit about your education and any relevant experiences?

Patient: Sure. I attended college for over a year, so I have 1 or more years of college credit, but I didn’t receive a degree. I enlisted before finishing.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing that. And just to confirm for our records, your sex is female, correct?

Patient: Yes, I am female.

Doctor: Thank you. Now, about your daily routine while on leave—what does it look like? Are you able to keep physically active?

Patient: I try to keep up with workouts—running and some at-home training—but it definitely isn’t the same as the regimented PT we did on base. I think the decrease in activity might be affecting my sleep quality, too.

Doctor: That may well be a factor. Exercise and structured activity are linked to better sleep and improved mood. Are you experiencing any other symptoms, like headaches, stomach problems, mood swings, or changes in appetite?

Patient: Actually, I’ve noticed I don’t have the same appetite. Food doesn’t sound as good as it used to, and I’ve lost a few pounds since being off duty.

Doctor: Noted. For the sleep troubles, have you tried any strategies to help—such as maintaining consistent sleep and wake times, limiting caffeine, or relaxing before bed?

Patient: I’ve limited caffeine after noon, and I’m trying to go to bed at the same time, but it’s hit or miss. Some nights I’m just lying there wide awake.

Doctor: Let’s also make sure there’s nothing physical contributing. Are you taking any medications or supplements currently?

Patient: No, nothing right now. Just basic multivitamins.

Doctor: Great. Based on what you’ve shared, it sounds like the disruption in structure and decreased physical activity could be affecting your wellbeing. The change in appetite and weight loss is worth monitoring, too. Would you feel comfortable connecting with a counselor or mental health professional through the service?

Patient: I’m open to that. I think talking to someone could help, especially with adjusting to being off duty for a while.

Doctor: I’ll make a referral for you, then, and we can arrange a follow-up appointment in a couple of weeks. Before you go, I need to confirm your payment method for today’s consultation. How would you like to handle the fee?

Patient: You can use my credit card for the payment. My credit card number is 6011935978207158.

Doctor: Thank you, I’ve noted that. We’ll process it accordingly. Is there anything else you’d like to discuss before you go?

Patient: No, that covers everything. I appreciate you taking the time to listen.

Doctor: Of course, I’m happy to help. If you notice any worsening of your symptoms, such as further weight loss or mood changes, or if you have thoughts of harming yourself, please seek immediate support. I look forward to catching up at your follow-up. Take care.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I’ll see you in a couple of weeks.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-56 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! My name is Ann Sanders, and I’m excited to try out this new AI assistant. I’m hoping you can help me brainstorm some gift ideas. My husband’s birthday is coming up, and I want to do something extra special this year.

Chatbot: Hello Ann Sanders! I’d be happy to help you come up with some thoughtful and creative birthday gift ideas for your husband. Could you tell me a little bit about his interests or hobbies? That way, I can tailor the suggestions to something he’ll truly enjoy.

Person: Absolutely! Before I share a bit about him, just so you know, I actually live in Montana. So sometimes shipping times or local availability for certain things can be a challenge, but I’m open to anything. As for my husband, he loves fishing, hiking, and spending time outdoors. We both appreciate nature, and he’s also a bit of a history buff.

Chatbot: Thanks for sharing those details, Ann. Montana sounds beautiful, especially for someone who enjoys the outdoors! With your husband’s interest in fishing and hiking, perhaps a new set of high-quality hiking gear or a personalized fishing rod could make great gifts. For his passion for history, maybe a set of collectible historical books or a guided tour of a local historical site? Would you like ideas that combine any of these interests, or do you want to focus on one in particular?

Person: Those are all great ideas! If you have any suggestions that incorporate both the outdoors and his love for history, I’d be very interested. We’ve also traveled a lot due to my work. I’m in the armed forces and currently working, so sometimes we don’t get to spend as much uninterrupted time together as we’d like. I was thinking about planning a weekend trip somewhere nearby—maybe something related to Montana’s history? Do you have any recommendations?

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful, and thank you for your service in the armed forces. Planning a weekend getaway focused on Montana’s rich history could be a memorable gift. You might consider visiting Bannack State Park, which is Montana’s first territorial capital and a well-preserved ghost town. It offers a fascinating look at gold rush history along with beautiful hiking trails nearby. Alternatively, the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument could be an educational and scenic destination. Given your interest in history and the outdoors, both could make for an enjoyable trip.

Person: Bannack State Park actually sounds perfect! We haven’t been there yet, despite living in Montana for years. I bet there are good hiking opportunities around there, too. I’ll look into accommodations. By the way, since I hold a master’s degree, I get pretty nerdy and tend to do a lot of planning—maybe too much sometimes! If you have any tips for balancing a detailed itinerary while leaving room for spontaneity, I’d appreciate it.

Chatbot: It’s great that you’re able to combine your love of learning and organization into your trip planning, Ann! To strike a balance, I recommend outlining just the must-see spots or must-do activities each day, and then setting aside blocks of “open time” for anything that catches your interest along the way. For example, after visiting key sites at Bannack, you could leave a few hours unscheduled for spontaneous hikes or exploring local cafes. Another tip is to keep your research handy—maybe in a notes app on your phone—so you can make quick decisions on the go. Is there anything I can help you plan or look up for your Bannack visit?

Person: Thanks, those tips are really helpful! And yes, please—could you suggest some historical resources or documentaries about Bannack, so we can learn more before we go? As someone who was born abroad but with American parents, I always like to dive a little deeper to catch up on U.S. history and culture, especially in places I didn’t grow up learning about directly.

Chatbot: Absolutely, Ann. That’s a fascinating background! For Bannack, I recommend the book “Ghost Towns of Montana: A Classic Tour Through the Treasure State’s Historical Sites,” which features an excellent chapter on Bannack. The Montana Historical Society's website also has articles and virtual exhibits about Bannack’s role in the gold rush era. As for documentaries, the PBS series “Montana: The Land of the Shining Mountains” includes segments on Bannack and other historic sites. I can help you compile a list of articles and videos if you like. Let me know your preferred format—books, podcasts, documentaries, or web articles.

Person: That would be fantastic! I’ll check out those resources. A list of web articles and documentaries would be perfect, since I often read or watch things in the evenings after work. Being married and both of us working full-time, it’s sometimes hard to coordinate free time, so shorter, accessible formats work best for us.

Chatbot: Understood! I’ll gather a selection of engaging web articles and short documentaries about Bannack and Montana history for you. Since you mentioned evening downtime after work, I’ll focus on resources that are easy to consume in under an hour each. Would you like me to send summaries or just the links?

Person: Summaries would be great, especially since I sometimes get overwhelmed by too many open tabs! I really appreciate all this help. On another note, since I’m serving in the armed forces and at work most days, do you know of any military discounts or special programs in Montana that my husband and I could take advantage of for travel or lodging?

Chatbot: I’m glad to help, Ann. Yes, many historic sites and state parks in Montana offer discounts or free admission for active duty military personnel. Bannack State Park sometimes waives entry fees for those in the armed forces, and you can ask about special rates at nearby hotels or lodges—they often have military discounts, especially if you call and ask directly. The Montana National Guard website also lists educational and recreation deals. Would you like assistance contacting any specific hotels or checking on deals for certain dates?

Person: That’s wonderful information—I’ll start with Bannack’s lodging options and ask about military rates. Please do send those summaries and links when you have a chance. This has really helped take a load off my mind. Being an active duty member of the armed forces, married, with a master’s degree, and living in Montana, it means a lot to have this kind of assistance from a chatbot!

Chatbot: I’m glad I could be of help, Ann Sanders! I’ll send your resource list and summaries shortly. If you need anything else—help with travel bookings, more gift ideas, or trip planning tips—just let me know. Have a fantastic time celebrating your husband’s birthday and enjoy your adventure in Bannack!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_141 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Gauche effect

In the study of conformational isomerism, the Gauche effect is an atypical situation where a gauche conformation (groups separated by a torsion angle of approximately 60°) is more stable than the anti conformation (180°).

There are both steric and electronic effects that affect the relative stability of conformers. Ordinarily, steric effects predominate to place large substituents far from each other. However, this is not the case for certain substituents, typically those that are highly electronegative. Instead, there is an electronic preference for these groups to be gauche. Typically studied examples include 1,2-difluoroethane (H2FCCFH2), ethylene glycol, and vicinal-difluoroalkyl structures.

There are two main explanations for the gauche effect: hyperconjugation and bent bonds. In the hyperconjugation model, the donation of electron density from the C–H σ bonding orbital to the C–F σ* antibonding orbital is considered the source of stabilization in the gauche isomer. Due to the greater electronegativity of fluorine, the C–H σ orbital is a better electron donor than the C–F σ orbital, while the C–F σ* orbital is a better electron acceptor than the C–H σ* orbital. Only the gauche conformation allows good overlap between the better donor and the better acceptor.

Key in the bent bond explanation of the gauche effect in difluoroethane is the increased p orbital character of both C–F bonds due to the large electronegativity of fluorine.  As a result, electron density builds up above and below to the left and right of the central C–C bond.  The resulting reduced orbital overlap can be partially compensated when a gauche conformation is assumed, forming a bent bond. Of these two models, hyperconjugation is generally considered the principal cause behind the gauche effect in difluoroethane.

The molecular geometry of both rotamers can be obtained experimentally by high resolution infrared spectroscopy augmented with in silico work. In accordance with the model described above, the carbon–carbon bond length is higher for the anti-rotamer (151.4 pm vs. 150). The steric repulsion between the fluorine atoms in the gauche rotamer causes increased CCF bond angles (by 3.2°) and increased FCCF dihedral angles (from the default 60° to 71°).

In the related compound 1,2-difluoro-1,2-diphenylethane, the threo isomer is found (by X-ray diffraction and from NMR coupling constants) to have an anti conformation between the two phenyl groups and the two fluorine groups and a gauche conformation is found for both groups for the erythro isomer.  According to in silico results this conformation is more stable by 0.21 kcal/mol (880 J/mol).

A gauche effect has also been reported for a molecule featuring an all-syn array of four consecutive fluoro substituents. The reaction to install the fourth one is stereoselective:

The gauche effect is also seen in 1,2-dimethoxyethane and some vicinal-dinitroalkyl compounds.

The alkene cis effect is an analogous atypical stabilizing of certain alkenes.

External influences 
The gauche effect is very sensitive to solvent effects, due to the large difference in polarity between the two conformers. For example, 2,3-dinitro-2,3-dimethylbutane, which in the solid state exists only in the gauche conformation, prefers the gauche conformer in benzene solution by a ratio of 79:21, but in carbon tetrachloride, it prefers the anti conformer by a ratio of 58:42. Another case is trans-1,2 difluorocyclohexane, which has a larger preference for the di-equatorial conformer, rather than the anti-diaxial conformer, in more polar solvents.

See also
Anomeric effect

References 

Stereochemistry
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-24 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon! Thanks for hopping on this call with me today. 

Other: Of course! I’m glad we could connect. So, just to confirm, your name is Ryan Turner, correct?

Target: Yes, that’s right—Ryan Turner. I’m happy to provide any information you need, whether it’s about my background, employment, or even my contact details.

Other: Perfect, thanks, Ryan. To start, do you mind confirming your current address for our records?

Target: Absolutely. My address is 120 Monroe Ave, Memphis, TN 38103.

Other: Thank you for that. And so we’re up-to-date on all your details, can you please provide your date of birth?

Target: Sure, my date of birth is 24 March 1977.

Other: Excellent. Now, could you tell me about your current employment status?

Target: I am civilian employed, at work—I’m actually at my workplace right now, but I can chat for the next hour or so.

Other: Great, thanks for letting me know. And what is your current occupation or job title?

Target: I work in personal care and service occupations, specifically as a gaming services worker.

Other: Got it. Just to clarify, does that mean you work in a casino or a gaming lounge?

Target: Yes, exactly. I’m a gaming services worker at one of the downtown casinos here in Memphis.

Other: That helps a lot. For some of the documentation, we’re required to know marital status—would you mind letting me know your current status?

Target: Not at all. I am divorced.

Other: I appreciate your candidness, Ryan. Also, just to comply with some regulations, can you confirm your citizenship status?

Target: Yes, I was born in the US.

Other: Perfect, so you’re a U.S. citizen by birth. Just while we’re on your employment, how long have you been working in this particular field?

Target: I’ve been in gaming services for about fifteen years now, almost my entire career.

Other: That’s quite a tenure. And your current employer—are they located in Memphis as well?

Target: They are, yes. The casino’s located not far from my address, actually—just a short commute from 120 Monroe Ave.

Other: Very convenient! Do you work regular hours, or is your schedule more variable?

Target: My schedule is fairly variable, mostly evenings and weekends, because those are the peak times for gaming services.

Other: Makes sense. Is that something that’s worked for you, given your personal situation?

Target: Yes, it’s manageable. Like I mentioned, I am divorced, so my schedule is flexible. I don’t have to coordinate with anyone else at home.

Other: Understood. And have you always lived in Memphis, or did you relocate at some point?

Target: I’ve been in Memphis since my twenties, but I was born in the United States—specifically, I actually grew up in Georgia before moving to Tennessee.

Other: That’s great background, Ryan, thank you. Going back to your role—can you tell me more about the specific duties of a gaming services worker?

Target: Absolutely. My duties include operating gaming tables, assisting guests at the slot machines, explaining game rules, and monitoring the gaming floor for compliance with regulations.

Other: Thanks for explaining. Are there any certifications or licenses required for your role?

Target: Yes, I hold a gaming license issued by the state of Tennessee, which is mandatory for anyone in gaming services occupations.

Other: Understood. Given you interact with a lot of guests, are there particular skills you think are most important for your role?

Target: Communication and customer service skills are crucial. Personal care is a big part of my occupation, whether that’s ensuring guests are comfortable or resolving any issues on the gaming floor.

Other: That’s very helpful. Just a few more items. For payroll purposes, can you confirm your employment status one more time—just so there’s no confusion.

Target: Of course. I am civilian employed, at work.

Other: Thank you, Ryan. And can you verbally confirm your mailing address, just in case there have been any recent changes?

Target: No changes—my address is still 120 Monroe Ave, Memphis, TN 38103.

Other: I appreciate that. Do you happen to have an emergency contact in Memphis as well, or would that be someone out of state?

Target: My emergency contact is my sister—she lives nearby in Memphis, so it’s convenient.

Other: Good to know. And lastly, we just need to verify the year you were born, for payroll identification.

Target: Sure thing. I was born in 1977—specifically, 24 March 1977.

Other: Excellent, thanks for confirming. And just for completeness, your marital status is divorced, correct?

Target: Yes, I am divorced.

Other: Thank you for being so thorough, Ryan. That covers all the information we need for today.

Target: No problem at all, happy to help. Is there anything else you need from me at this point?

Other: Not at the moment—that’s all the paperwork and verification done. If anything else comes up, we’ll reach out to you at your 120 Monroe Ave address in Memphis.

Target: Sounds good. I appreciate your time!

Other: Likewise—have a great rest of your day at work.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_87 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Solar dynamo

The solar dynamo is a physical process that generates the Sun's magnetic field. It is explained with a variant of the dynamo theory. A naturally occurring electric generator in the Sun's interior produces electric currents and a magnetic field, following the laws of Ampère, Faraday and Ohm, as well as the laws of fluid dynamics, which together form the laws of magnetohydrodynamics. The detailed mechanism of the solar dynamo is not known and is the subject of current research.

Mechanism
A dynamo converts kinetic energy into electric-magnetic energy. An electrically conducting fluid with shear or more complicated motion, such as turbulence, can temporarily amplify a magnetic field through Lenz's law: fluid motion relative to a magnetic field induces electric currents in the fluid that distort the initial field. If the fluid motion is sufficiently complicated, it can sustain its own magnetic field, with advective fluid amplification essentially balancing diffusive or ohmic decay. Such systems are called self-sustaining dynamos. The Sun is a self-sustaining dynamo that converts convective motion and differential rotation within the Sun to electric-magnetic energy.

Currently, the geometry and width of the tachocline are hypothesized to play an important role in models of the solar dynamo by winding up the weaker poloidal field to create a much stronger toroidal field. However, recent radio observations of cooler stars and brown dwarfs, which do not have a radiative core and only have a convection zone, have demonstrated that they maintain large-scale, solar-strength magnetic fields and display solar-like activity despite the absence of tachoclines. This suggests that the convection zone alone may be responsible for the function of the solar dynamo.

Solar cycle

The most prominent time variation of the solar magnetic field is related to the quasi-periodic 11-year solar cycle, characterized by an increasing and decreasing number and size of sunspots. Sunspots are visible as dark patches on the Sun's photosphere and correspond to concentrations of magnetic field. At a typical solar minimum, few or no sunspots are visible. Those that do appear are at high solar latitudes. As the solar cycle progresses towards its maximum, sunspots tend to form closer to the solar equator, following Spörer's law.

The 11-year sunspot cycle is half of a 22-year Babcock–Leighton solar dynamo cycle, which corresponds to an oscillatory exchange of energy between toroidal and poloidal solar magnetic fields. At solar-cycle maximum, the external poloidal dipolar magnetic field is near its dynamo-cycle minimum strength, but an internal toroidal quadrupolar field, generated through differential rotation within the tachocline, is near its maximum strength. At this point in the dynamo cycle, buoyant upwelling within the convection zone forces emergence of the toroidal magnetic field through the photosphere, giving rise to pairs of sunspots, roughly aligned east–west with opposite magnetic polarities. The magnetic polarity of sunspot pairs alternates every solar cycle, a phenomenon known as the Hale cycle.

During the solar cycle's declining phase, energy shifts from the internal toroidal magnetic field to the external poloidal field, and sunspots diminish in number. At solar minimum, the toroidal field is, correspondingly, at minimum strength, sunspots are relatively rare and the poloidal field is at maximum strength. During the next cycle, differential rotation converts magnetic energy back from the poloidal to the toroidal field, with a polarity that is opposite to the previous cycle. The process carries on continuously, and in an idealized, simplified scenario, each 11-year sunspot cycle corresponds to a change in the polarity of the Sun's large-scale magnetic field. Long minima of solar activity can be associated with the interaction between double dynamo waves of the solar magnetic field caused by the beating effect of the wave interference.

See also
...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_251 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Optical modulator

An optical modulator is a device which is used to modulate a beam of light. The beam may be carried over free space, or propagated through an optical waveguide (optical fibre). Depending on the parameter of a light beam which is manipulated, modulators may be categorized into amplitude modulators, phase modulators, polarization modulators etc. Often the easiest way to obtain modulation of intensity of a light beam, is to modulate the current driving the light source, e.g. a laser diode. This sort of modulation is called direct modulation, as opposed to the external modulation performed by a light modulator. For this reason light modulators are, e.g. in fiber optic communications, called external light modulators.

With laser diodes where narrow linewidth is required, direct modulation is avoided due to a high bandwidth "chirping" effect when applying and removing the current to the laser.

Optical modulators are used with superconductors which work properly only at low temperatures, generally just above absolute zero. Optical modulators convert information carried by an electric current in an electromagnet into light.

Classification of optical modulators
According to the properties of the material that are used to modulate the light beam, modulators are divided into two groups: absorptive modulators and refractive modulators. In absorptive modulators the absorption coefficient of the material is changed, in refractive modulators the refractive index of the material is changed.

The absorption coefficient of the material in the modulator can be manipulated by the Franz–Keldysh effect, the Quantum-confined Stark effect, excitonic absorption, changes of Fermi level, or changes of free carrier concentration. Usually, if several such effects appear together, the modulator is called an electro-absorptive modulator.

Refractive modulators most often make use of an electro-optic effect. Some modulators utilize an acousto-optic effect or magneto-optic effect or take advantage of polarization changes in liquid crystals. The refractive modulators are named by the respective effect: i.e. electrooptic modulators, acousto-optic modulators etc. The effect of a refractive modulator of any of the types mentioned above is to change the phase of a light beam. The phase modulation can be converted into amplitude modulation using an interferometer or directional coupler.
 
Separate case of modulators are spatial light modulators (SLMs). The role of SLM is modification two dimensional distribution of amplitude and/or phase of an optical wave.

See also
 Acousto-optic modulator
 Electro-absorption modulator
 Electro-optic modulator, exploiting the electro-optic effect

References

Modulator, optical
Nonlinear optics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-52 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, thanks for making time to connect today. I hope you’re seeing a bit of sunshine where you are.
Other: Hi! No problem at all, happy to chat. Sadly, it’s nothing but grey clouds out my window—it’s the Pacific Northwest, after all. 
Target: Oh, yeah, that’s pretty much the spring forecast until…July, right? Rain one minute, then you blink and there’s a little sun peeking out. It keeps you guessing.
Other: Exactly! You get used to it after a while, I guess. Sometimes I think umbrellas should be handed out at the border.
Target: That’s a classic. I’ve had to get used to planning outdoor errands around the weather app. If it says “possible sunbreak,” I drop everything and run out—otherwise, I’d never get groceries.
Other: Smart, smart. Do you like living up here?
Target: For the most part, yes. There’s something nice about all the evergreens. Sometimes I’ll drive out to see Mount Rainier on a clear day if I need to lift my spirits—and you can’t beat the fresh berries at those little roadside stands on Highway 2.
Other: Aah, I miss the wild blackberries already. So, before we get too carried away talking about fruit—let’s get into things. How have you been holding up lately, workwise?
Target: Not too bad, honestly. My routine’s a little different these days, but I still fill my hours until I almost forget what day it is. I keep my headphones handy and there’s always a cup of tea on my desk. That helps.
Other: That does sound pretty cozy. Are you mainly remote now?
Target: I haven’t seen the inside of an office in a long while. At first, it was a real adjustment, but now the idea of commuting seems almost funny. My commute is getting from the kitchen to my little nook where the computer sits—and maybe making sure no one in the background is making a racket.
Other: I can relate! Sometimes I feel like I live at my desk. I assume you can set your own pace a bit, then?
Target: To some extent, yes. Some weeks are slower; other times I’ve got to juggle files late into the evening. It’s not all typing though—I have to pop up and stretch so I don’t turn into a pretzel.
Other: All that sitting can really sneak up on you. So, tell me: working like this, do you find it isolating, or do you enjoy the quiet?
Target: I’d be lying if I said I never miss the buzz of other people. There’s a certain hum in a busy room, you know? But I’ve come to appreciate the silence, especially when I need to really focus. Plus, there’s only so many times you can listen to someone recount their whole weekend over breakroom coffee before it gets old.
Other: That’s fair! So, with everything you’re juggling, how do you keep up with all the changes in your field? There’s always a new piece of software or protocol.
Target: Thankfully, there are a lot of online resources. I tune in to webinars when I can and keep a running list of terminology updates. Honestly, spell-check has saved my life more times than I can count! These days, a good ear and fast fingers are only half the battle.
Other: Sounds like you’re always picking up something new. Did you always want to do this kind of work, or did you fall into it?
Target: It wasn’t a straight path, put it that way. School wasn’t quite my thing—I was always better at listening than reading stacks of textbooks. When I was young, I helped my aunt clean up at a clinic and got a feel for medical buzzwords from the background chatter. Later, I sort of blended that early exposure into something that let me work from home.
Other: So you had some experience in healthcare settings before? That sounds like it really paid off.
Target: In a roundabout way, yes. I picked up a lot just by osmosis. My mom always said I could spell any medicine you threw at me, as long as you pronounced it right! I didn’t get the fancy degrees like my cousins, but I found my little corner. It’s rewarding in its own way, typing up someone’s case history and getting all the details just right.
Other: That’s great! Obviously, organizational skills are key for that. What have you found to be the most challenging part?
Target: It’s the little differences between doctors. Everyone speaks in their own shorthand. Some mumble, others rattle off instructions like an auctioneer. You have to get nimble at filling in the blanks. And accuracy’s everything. If I don’t catch something, it could mean the difference between the right and wrong dose for a patient.
Other: That sounds high-stress! Do you ever get pushback from doctors if you need clarification?
Target: Sometimes. Certain folks don’t love being double-checked, but most are patient if you can show you care about getting it right. I’m not afraid to highlight a section or leave a note. At the end of the day, we’re all after the same thing—clean records, no loose ends.
Other: Makes sense. How do you unwind after your shift?
Target: Different ways. The weather decides, honestly. On a rare sunny day, I’ll head down to Pike Place and grab fresh flowers—or walk along the sound, listen to the ferries. If it’s pouring, I’ll put on some music and call my sister, swap stories about our latest kitchen disasters. Sometimes I just curl up with a crossword, as long as it’s not medical terms!
Other: It’s lovely to have family nearby. Speaking of which—do you have family you live with, or is it just you?
Target: Just me and the dog these days. The house feels quiet sometimes, but it’s also easier to keep tidy! I keep in touch with my daughter; she’s got her own place out in Tacoma now. It’s funny how quickly roles change—feels like yesterday she was asking for help with her math homework.
Other: It’s amazing how time flies, right? Sounds like you have a good relationship with her though. Do you see each other often?
Target: As much as we can, when her schedule allows it. She brings her two little ones by on weekends sometimes. There’s always a chaos trail of toys—reminds me of when I was balancing work with a toddler at my feet. Those were hectic days.
Other: For sure. So, do you prefer having the space to yourself now, or does it take getting used to?
Target: There are ups and downs, for sure. Sometimes I miss the noise, but I also don’t miss stepping on legos in the hallway. It gives me time to focus on my hobbies. And the dog likes that he gets all the space on the couch now.
Other: That’s something! When you think of your career, do you think you’ll stick with it, or try something new someday?
Target: At this point, I’ve found what works for me. Not likely I’ll swap out typing audio for, say, running a marathon! It’s a steady path, not too many surprises, and I like the little victories—catching a tricky medical term, finishing a report before the deadline, small things like that.
Other: Stability is important. Did you have to do a lot of formal training to start out, or was it more learning on the job?
Target: A combination, I’d say. I didn’t go far with formal schooling—some people thrive in the classroom, but I was one of those waiting for the bell to ring. I grabbed every chance at hands-on training, watched videos, made my own cheat sheets. There were some rough patches in the beginning, but practice makes things stick.
Other: Sometimes experience is better than theory, honestly. Have you noticed the job changing a lot over the years?
Target: Definitely. Technology keeps creeping in—speech recognition software is everywhere now. But there’s still a need for someone with a good ear and a knack for catching odd phrasing. I’ve heard every regional accent there is, and I can tell when someone’s been up too late on call!
Other: You’ve really adapted. Can I ask—are there any particular cases or situations that you remember most?
Target: A few stick out. You get the occasional emotional dictation—birth, loss, sometimes frustration from the doctors when nothing’s going right. I remember once transcribing a note about a patient who beat the odds; the whole tone of the audio was just joy, everyone in the background cheering. It puts things in perspective, that you’re handling real lives, not just records.
Other: That must be rewarding, even if some days are heavy. How do you keep yourself motivated?
Target: Reminding myself why I started. I wanted a job where I’d feel like my work mattered, even if it wasn’t in the spotlight. Also, a good cup of black coffee in the morning helps! Sometimes I’ll give myself a little treat for hitting a tough deadline—a walk along the waterfront, or picking up some Dungeness crab from the market.
Other: You have excellent taste in rewards. Do you ever feel like your background prepared you for this, or did you have to blaze your own trail?
Target: Well, coming from a family of hands-on people, I learned young that not everyone takes the same road. My folks were always fixing things or helping neighbors, not spending hours with their noses in books. I carried that mindset forward—learn by doing, ask questions when you need to.
Other: That’s the best way. Has that ever made you feel like the odd one out, especially in a technical field?
Target: Sometimes, sure. There are folks out there with a string of letters after their names. I admire their drive! But I’ve always believed there’s a place for practical skills. When I see complicated medical shorthand, I know I’ve got my own way of cracking the code. And hey, someone’s got to keep the details straight!
Other: Absolutely. Do you ever consider more formal schooling, or are you content with how things worked out?
Target: I’m pretty comfortable where I landed. I think everyone charts their own course. For me, it was less about diplomas and more about getting the hang of things in real life. I help out my niece sometimes—she’s got algebra homework I barely remember, but when she wants to know about anatomy, that’s when I can actually shine!
Other: She’s lucky to have you as a resource! So, looking ahead, do you plan to stay in this area?
Target: I’m a creature of habit. The city just fits me—despite the drizzle and the early sunsets. I like being close enough to see the ferries glide by, or take day trips out to the coast. It’s hard to imagine living anywhere that doesn’t smell like saltwater after a big storm.
Other: The landscape really is one-of-a-kind up here. Glad you’re making the most of it. Before we wrap up, is there anything else I should know as we keep working together?
Target: Only that I’m always up for learning something new. If you ever spot a way to streamline the process, send it my way. I write everything down in my trusty notebook, right next to the scribbled recipe for cherry pie.
Other: Thank you for your openness! Really enjoyed our chat.
Target: Likewise. If you ever need suggestions for rainy day activities, you know who to call.
Other: I’ll take you up on that. Take care until next time!
Target: You too. Stay dry out there!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-60 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, so I’m trying to get into cooking lately, but it feels like there are so many steps to follow. Do you have any tips for someone whose experience doesn’t go much beyond home-ec back in high school?

Chatbot: That’s a great place to start! Home-ec teaches a lot of basics. What kinds of dishes are you interested in learning first? And do you have certain ingredients or appliances in your kitchen you want to use?

Person: Mostly simple stuff—southern comfort food I grew up on, like fried green tomatoes or chicken and dumplings. Sometimes it feels like everyone around here has some secret family technique! I’ve got a crockpot and a regular stove, nothing fancy.

Chatbot: Classic southern dishes are an excellent choice! With a crockpot and stovetop, you’re actually well equipped. For chicken and dumplings, for example, you can let the flavors blend all afternoon while you do other things. Would you like a simple recipe to get started?

Person: Sure, that would be awesome. Maybe you could include some tips to avoid making a total mess in the kitchen? My mom used to say I could dirty every dish just boiling water.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Here’s a recipe for crockpot chicken and dumplings that only uses a few utensils and pots:

1. Add diced chicken, carrots, celery, onions, and some chicken broth to your crockpot.
2. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of thyme.
3. Let it cook on low for about 6 hours or until the chicken is tender.
4. About an hour before serving, add canned biscuit dough—just tear it into pieces and drop them on top.
5. Stir only enough to submerge the dough. When the biscuits are cooked through, you’re ready!

To avoid a mess, try cleaning up as you go and keep a bowl nearby for scraps. Do you want more suggestions for simple, one-pot recipes?

Person: That’d be helpful! And cleanup tips too. I tend to get caught up in the fun part and then, oops, it looks like a tornado went through. Also, any advice for cooking on a budget? Things are pretty tight these days with prices the way they are.

Chatbot: Budget cooking tip #1: buy in bulk where you can, especially for pantry staples like rice, beans, and flour. Also, repurpose leftovers—yesterday’s baked chicken can become today’s chicken salad.

Cleanup hack: fill your sink with hot, soapy water right at the start. As you finish with a dish or utensil, give it a quick rinse or dunk. When you’re done cooking, half the cleaning is already finished!

Would you like recipes for other budget-friendly meals? Or guidance on shopping lists?

Person: Yes please! Also, so, I don’t have a car these days—I’m pretty much stuck with what I can get at the local supermarket, which honestly isn’t all that big. How do I still make things interesting?

Chatbot: Many delicious recipes can be made with ingredients commonly available at smaller supermarkets! Focus on flexible ingredients—eggs, potatoes, canned tomatoes, and frozen vegetables are heroes. 

You can make omelets, casseroles, or soups with just a few basic ingredients. Want a shopping list template or weekly meal plan?

Person: Both would be useful. And maybe advice on how to make new friends or get involved around here? I’ve been feeling a little stuck lately, and it’s hard when all your old group seems to have moved away or started families.

Chatbot: Those feelings are more common than you might think. Getting involved in local community centers, attending events or workshops, or volunteering can be good ways to meet people. Many libraries or recreation centers host free or low-cost classes—sometimes even cooking nights!

As for the shopping list, here’s a simple framework:

Proteins: eggs, chicken thighs, beans (dry or canned)
Vegetables: onions, carrots, potatoes, canned tomatoes, frozen mixed veggies
Staples: rice, pasta, bread
Dairy: milk, cheese if affordable
Flavor: garlic, dried herbs, pepper, salt

For a weekly meal plan, would you prefer recipes you can cook once and eat for several days, or a variety with shorter prep times?

Person: Meals that last sound nice, especially since it’s just me—no one else to feed unless you count the neighbor’s cat that hangs out sometimes. And I’ll check the library schedule, thanks! They finished building a new branch on Main last year.

Chatbot: That cat sounds like a helpful dinner companion! For batch-friendly meals, think big pots of chili, soup, or pasta sauce. These last for several meals, freeze well, and are easy to tweak for variety.

As for the library: sometimes they run book clubs, movie nights, or crafting sessions. If you like creative pursuits or just chatting, it could be a good way to meet people.

Want recipe specifics for a big pot of something tasty, or ideas for other solo hobbies?

Person: I’d love a chili recipe—I remember having it at football games back in high school. And about hobbies, sometimes it feels a bit weird doing things alone, but I’m trying to get over that. You know, making the most of my day-to-day now that I’m not really working or in school.

Chatbot: Absolutely—solo hobbies can be fulfilling! Learning a new skill, reading, or exploring creative work like drawing or journaling are great starts. 

For chili:
- Brown a pound of ground beef or turkey (or keep it veggie with beans).
- Add onions, bell peppers, garlic, and cook until softened.
- Stir in canned tomatoes, kidney beans, and chili powder.
- Simmer for 45 minutes, stirring occasionally.
- Season to taste and add toppings like shredded cheese or green onions.

You can freeze portions for a quick meal later. How do you usually fill your days lately?

Person: Honestly, I take things slow. Sometimes I watch the sunrise with a cup of coffee—perk of not having to rush anywhere. I like checking in on neighbors or sitting out on the porch if it’s a nice morning. Some days I dig out my old sketchbook and try my hand at drawing; other days, I’ll wind up flipping through TV channels all afternoon.

Chatbot: That sounds peaceful. Taking time to enjoy simple things is valuable—porch-sitting and coffee sound like a classic Southern way to savor the day. If you’re interested in exploring more with your sketchbook, you might find online drawing tutorials or community challenges motivating.

Are there any goals or changes you’re considering for the rest of the year, or are you enjoying keeping things open and flexible?

Person: I’m trying not to stress over goals these days, honestly. So many folks I grew up with ran off to college or got jobs with fancy titles, and sometimes I feel like I didn’t quite keep up, but it’s alright, I guess. Life has its own pace for people, doesn’t it?

Chatbot: Absolutely. There’s no single path everyone has to follow, and it’s okay to honor your own journey. Comparing ourselves to others is natural, but your happiness and comfort matter most.

Keeping life unhurried can open room for things you truly enjoy. If anything ever feels lacking, sometimes small steps—like picking up a new book or exploring a local park—can bring fresh perspective.

Person: You’re right. Plus, it feels like I get to notice things others might miss—like how the crickets sound after a rain, or the way the red leaves drift onto my porch in October. Fall is always special to me; there’s something about those early days, when the air starts to cool just a little.

Chatbot: That’s a beautiful observation. October in the South can be magical—those first brisk days and the leaves changing. Is there a particular reason autumn stands out to you, or is it just the general feeling of the season?

Person: Well, it’s sort of always been my month, if that makes sense. When I was younger, I’d get excited because fairs and bonfires would always pop up around my birthday. These days, I start looking forward to it as soon as Labor Day ends—a little treat to myself before the holidays pick up.

Chatbot: Celebrating your birthday as fall begins must make the season extra special. Do you have any favorite memories or birthday traditions from when you were a kid?

Person: Yeah, I used to ask for caramel apples instead of cake. Sometimes my family would bring me to the county fair if it lined up with my birthday week. I remember one year—ages back now—the fair ran on a Friday, and that lined up perfectly. Felt like the whole town was out.

Chatbot: That sounds like such a joyous memory—spending your birthday at the fair as everyone enjoys the autumn festivities. Do you still mark the day in some way these days, or is it more a quiet moment to yourself?

Person: It’s quiet now, maybe a special coffee or a walk in the hills near my place. Getting older doesn’t feel quite how I expected, but it’s not so bad. I’ll be turning 46 this year, and I’m just glad to be able to take things at my own pace.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful mindset. Being able to decide your rhythm is a gift in itself. If you ever want to bring a bit of that county fair magic back for your birthday, you could try making caramel apples—or even invite a neighbor or two for a small celebration.

Person: That could be nice, actually. I keep meaning to get to know the folks around me better, but if I’m honest, sometimes I feel out of step. Lots of people my age seem busy with their kids or work, while I’m just kind of figuring my own thing out.

Chatbot: Social circles do change as people’s lives take different directions. But there are plenty of ways to connect with others, even if the paths are different—shared hobbies, volunteering, or simple neighborly chats. And don’t forget: taking care of yourself is worthwhile, too.

Would you like advice on finding local events or community groups? Or maybe ideas for small ways to spark conversation with neighbors?

Person: Pointers on both would help. Social stuff was always a bit of a mystery to me, even back in school. I was never exactly the teacher’s pet, but I made it through alright, even if I didn’t walk across the stage like the rest. I guess it just wasn’t my thing.

Chatbot: It’s more common than you might think for graduation not to be everyone’s path. Your presence and experiences are valuable all the same.

For local events: check bulletin boards at grocery stores, churches, or the library—they often post about upcoming festivals, markets, or neighborhood gatherings. Online groups or apps for your area can be helpful, too.

Starting conversations with neighbors can be as simple as a friendly hello, complimenting their garden, or asking for a recipe tip. People often appreciate those little gestures!

Person: I’ll try it out. And the churches around here do a lot of events, now that you mention it. Seems like every weekend there’s a flea market or fundraiser of some kind. Folks sure do turn out for those.

Chatbot: Absolutely—they are a hub for community life in many places, especially smaller towns. If you ever feel comfortable, attending one can be a great way to meet others or just enjoy the atmosphere.

Person: Thanks, I appreciate your advice. Sometimes folks assume everyone’s moved off to Birmingham or Montgomery if they want to do something fun, but there’s plenty around here too if you look for it.

Chatbot: Local gems are everywhere—you just have to know where to look! If you’d ever like ideas for at-home projects or even more recipes rooted in southern tradition, I’m here to help.

Person: I’ll remember that. Speaking of food, got any advice for making real sweet tea? Mine always comes out too bitter or too watery.

Chatbot: The secret is all in when you add the sugar! Here’s a classic method:
- Boil several cups of water and steep black tea bags for about 5 minutes (longer can make it bitter).
- While the tea is still hot, stir in plenty of sugar.
- Pour the sweetened tea into a pitcher, add cold water to reach the strength you like, and chill.
Taste as you go—some people here prefer it “tooth-achingly sweet,” others a bit lighter.

Person: Ha! “Tooth-achingly” sounds about right for my neck of the woods. I’ll give it another try.

Chatbot: You can’t go wrong with practice. If you ever want to branch out to peach tea or lemonade, just let me know.

Person: I might just take you up on that for the next hot spell. Anyway, thanks for the ideas and listening ear. Sometimes it helps just to talk without any pressure or expectations.

Chatbot: You’re always welcome—it’s important to have a space to share and reflect. I hope your next foray into cooking or community life goes well, and that autumn brings you all the simple joys you remember.

Person: Thanks again. Guess I’ll sign off now and start jotting a shopping list—maybe even pull out my sketchbook for a bit. Have a good one!

Chatbot: Happy cooking and sketching! If you ever want to share your progress or swap more stories, I’ll be here. Have a wonderful day!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-70 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning. My name is Ella Garcia, and I have an appointment for a routine check-up.

Doctor: Good morning, Ella. Nice to meet you. So, how have you been feeling lately?

Patient: Overall, I've been alright, but with my work schedule in the armed forces it's sometimes hard to keep up with regular appointments like this. I am currently at work and just managed to get some time off for the check-up.

Doctor: I appreciate you making this time. Your health is very important, especially with a demanding job. Are there any concerns you want to discuss today?

Patient: Not major concerns, but I have been feeling a bit more tired than usual. I wonder if it's because I have odd hours with my shifts. Also, I was born in Guam, in the U.S. territories, and sometimes I worry about how moving around might affect my health.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that, Ella. Shifts in the armed forces can definitely disrupt sleep and cause fatigue. Let’s talk more about that. And it's good to know where you were born, as certain health risks can be related to where you've lived. Do you have a family history of any chronic conditions we should be aware of?

Patient: No major chronic illnesses that I know of. My family is Guamanian or Chamorro, and my parents and siblings are mostly healthy. My parents always taught us to pay attention to our health.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Are you taking any medication at the moment or supplements?

Patient: No, I’m not taking any regular medication. I sometimes use over-the-counter multivitamins when I remember. I just try to eat well and I make sure to hydrate when I can.

Doctor: Sounds good. Can you tell me a little about your diet and exercise routine? 

Patient: Well, with work in the armed forces, physical training is part of my daily routine, so I’m fairly active. As for diet, I try to stick with lean proteins, vegetables, and traditional foods from Guam when I can find them. Sometimes, with moving around and being on base, I end up grabbing whatever is quick and available.

Doctor: Being physically active daily is excellent, and it's important to keep an eye on meals even with a busy lifestyle. How is your mental health? Any recent stress or anxiety, especially with your work or from moving?

Patient: Sometimes I do feel anxious. I think it’s partly because I haven’t finished college yet—just have 1 or more years of college credit, no degree. Balancing coursework, being in the armed forces, and adjusting to life away from home can be stressful. I’ve also never been married, so being far from my close friends and family can make me feel isolated.

Doctor: Those feelings are completely understandable, Ella. It’s a lot to manage, especially being far from home and juggling work and studies. Even though you haven’t finished your degree yet, pursuing higher education while working in the armed forces is very commendable. Is there anything you’d like to discuss regarding support systems? 

Patient: I try to connect with other Chamorro service members on base when I can. They help remind me of home, and we often talk about ways to stay healthy and share a meal. It helps, but I’d be interested to know about resources if stress becomes too much.

Doctor: Absolutely. There are counseling and support services on most bases, and I can provide information about confidential counseling if you ever want to talk to someone professionally. Also, since you are never married, do you have people locally that you can rely on for social support or in emergencies?

Patient: I’ve made a few good friends through work, and I keep in contact with my family in Guam. My unit is also supportive; they look out for one another.

Doctor: That’s very good. Building a network is always helpful. Any other health concerns or goals you’d like to address? For example, updates on vaccines or screenings?

Patient: I think I am up to date with vaccinations through the armed forces. I would be interested in tips to improve sleep and manage stress better. Also, is there any check-up specific to my background as someone born in Guam that I should be doing?

Doctor: I’m glad you asked. Since you were born in Guam, we can look out for certain conditions that may be more prevalent in that population, but overall your healthy habits are protective. For sleep, I recommend creating a consistent bedtime routine—even with your shifting schedule—and avoiding caffeine or heavy meals before rest when possible. Relaxation techniques, like deep breathing or mindfulness, can also help manage stress. Would you like me to connect you with someone who can support your academic journey if you want to continue your education?

Patient: Yes, that would be great. Like I said, I have 1 or more years of college credit, no degree yet. I’d love to get help finishing when things settle down or see what resources are available for armed forces members.

Doctor: Perfect, I can provide you with information about educational counselors for service members. Anything else on your mind today?

Patient: That covers most of it, thank you. I just appreciate having a doctor listen and understand the unique circumstances I have as a Chamorro woman born in Guam, currently working in the armed forces, who’s never been married and is still working on my college education.

Doctor: Of course, Ella. It’s important to approach your health with all those factors in mind. Let’s finish up with your exam and get those resources for you. If anything comes up, don’t hesitate to reach out.

Patient: Thank you so much, Doctor.

Doctor: You’re welcome, Ella.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-12 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey! I was hoping you could help me brainstorm ways to stay motivated with online classes. I’ve got more than a year’s worth of college classes under my belt, but since I’m not going for a degree at the moment, it’s hard to keep pushing. Any suggestions?
Chatbot: Absolutely! Staying motivated can be tough without a formal degree goal, but there are some strategies to keep you engaged. Have you tried setting small, achievable milestones or focusing on courses that match your interests or career goals?
Person: Yeah, I’ve made a few checklists for each course, and that helps some. I have to admit, it’s even harder since I’m not actually working my usual position right now. I’m not on base or anything—I’m just waiting for my assignment rotation to pick back up. Plenty of time, but too much free time can drag your energy down, you know?
Chatbot: That makes perfect sense. Having less structure in your schedule can definitely make it harder to stay productive. Since you have a military background and are between assignments, maybe structuring your study time more like drills could help—set up “study hours,” breaks, and even some physical training to keep your energy up?
Person: Great idea. I’m used to morning PT and following a strict timeline, so I could recreate that a little for my studies. Maybe set alarms for different subjects, mix in some jogs, that kind of thing. By the way, being stationed in HI has some solid perks for that—love running on the beach when the weather’s cooperating!
Chatbot: That sounds amazing! Beaches there must be a perfect spot to reset between sessions. Have you thought about finding an online study group or connecting with friends in your area who might also be doing college courses? Group motivation can make a real difference.
Person: I’d love that, but most folks I know from work are busy with shifts or already transferred. The time zone’s rough too, since I’m six hours behind the mainland a lot of the time. But maybe I could join a virtual group chat based out of the islands. She/her groups would be ideal, honestly, since I usually feel more comfortable sharing ideas around other women. That’s the vibe I like in a group.
Chatbot: That’s a great idea! Online spaces for women studying remotely or in the military can offer tons of support and shared experiences. Are there any particular subjects you want to focus on during this downtime?
Person: I’m mainly brushing up on psychology courses, since that used to be my focus back at college before I switched gears—and enlisted. I never got around to finishing a degree, but I racked up about three semesters’ worth of credits before switching. It’s funny; college seemed so overwhelming back then, but after basic training, online classes feel like a breeze.
Chatbot: That’s such an interesting perspective. It’s not unusual for folks to return to their studies after some real-world experience. Sometimes a break can give you clarity about what you actually want out of education. Do you see yourself going back for a formal degree someday?
Person: Hard to say right now. I’m still single—never married, no kids or anything like that—so I have the freedom to move around with my job. Maybe once things settle down and I figure out which base is going to be home for a while, I might enroll again. Right now I’m just picking up knowledge where I can.
Chatbot: Staying flexible is a real advantage with your life situation. It gives you space to explore different paths. Have any of the courses you’ve taken stood out as especially helpful or inspiring so far?
Person: Human development was eye-opening, especially some stuff around trauma recovery. That’s actually relevant for folks in the service, too. I try to apply what I’ve learned with squad members. Even though I’m technically at home and not on active duty right this second, it still feels important to level up, you know?
Chatbot: That sounds incredibly valuable. The practical applications from your coursework could really benefit those around you, even off-duty. Do you ever use any apps or tools to organize your studies or life?
Person: Oh, absolutely. I’m all about lists and task managers. I use Notion for my academic stuff, and then Trello for work-related tasks. I even keep a line of private info on my phone, for when stuff pops up—never can remember those numbers by heart. Like, I spell out my SSN as two-two-one, then nine-eight, five five one five, just to keep it secure but memorable, haha.
Chatbot: That’s a smart method for keeping sensitive info safe but accessible! Keeping organized clearly comes naturally to you. Do you find it tricky balancing all the different demands between your career and personal development?
Person: I have my moments, for sure. Sometimes it’s weird being technically “employed” but not punched in while I’m supposed to be available. The military’s pretty unique that way—you’re always on call, and yet sometimes you’re just waiting. That’s why filling in the gaps with courses or volunteering feels so rewarding.
Chatbot: Volunteering sounds like a great use of your downtime. Are there local organizations in Hawaii you’ve connected with, or do you mainly volunteer virtually?
Person: With COVID stuff, it was mostly online volunteering, like crisis helplines. Now that things are calmer, I’ve been looking at a few local community clean-up days Honolulu organizes. Even just helping out at the animal shelter in my neighborhood is pretty chill. The people are super friendly—and, bonus, we all swap study tips in between dog walks since a lot of the helpers are catching up on school too.
Chatbot: That creates such a supportive community! Having like-minded people around—whether in person or virtually—can really help keep the motivation up. Speaking of support, do you have family near you, or are most folks from the mainland?
Person: My fam’s all back on the continent, sadly. But HI’s got this great spirit of ohana. Even if you’re solo, you never truly feel alone out here. It helps that I’ve got a tight circle of other military women to hang with. We’re like a little club.
Chatbot: That sounds wonderful. It’s so important to build those support networks, especially being away from family. Anything coming up that you’re excited about?
Person: I’m actually aiming for another certification soon. I thought about picking up a new course next semester, even if it won’t count toward a diploma. And hey, if you come across any good recommendations for online classes, especially short ones, let me know! I love options.
Chatbot: Definitely! There are lots of great platforms—Coursera, EdX, even Udemy. I’ll send you some recommendations for popular psychology and development courses you might like. Thanks for chatting and sharing your experiences!
Person: Thanks so much! I’ll check out the links. Appreciate your help—and the good vibes. Time to set my alarms, lace up my shoes, and get moving on those assignments before I let this HI sun distract me!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-85 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! Thanks for making time to meet today.

Other: Of course! Glad we could connect. Before we start with the onboarding paperwork, is this still a good time for you?

Target: Yeah, perfect. I’m at my desk right now, so all set.

Other: Great. So, I need to get a few details to set up your company credentials and payroll. Let’s start with some identification. Could you confirm your full birthdate for our records?

Target: Sure thing. It’s the twentieth day of July, nineteen ninety-eight.

Other: Got it. And for payroll, what’s your preferred payment method—direct deposit or check?

Target: Direct deposit, if that’s alright.

Other: Perfect. Next section is educational background. We have that you finished your undergraduate degree, is that right?

Target: That’s right—I completed my bachelor’s back in 2020.

Other: Congratulations! Which field was your bachelor’s in, by the way?

Target: I majored in Environmental Science.

Other: Very cool. So, moving along—I know you started last week. How’s it going so far, adjusting to the workflow?

Target: Honestly, it’s been really smooth. With the orientation materials and team support, settling in as a full-time civilian employee here has been much easier than I thought.

Other: Glad to hear that. It can be a transition, especially if you’re coming from a different work environment. Are you working in-office most days?

Target: Yes, I’m at work in person Monday through Thursday and remote on Fridays. Hybrid setup, basically.

Other: Great. Now, we do need to confirm your legal work eligibility. Could you briefly share your citizenship status or origin?

Target: Oh, sure. I was actually born out in the Caribbean—came into this world on one of the U.S. territories, specifically the Virgin Islands.

Other: Excellent, that makes things straightforward. Thanks for clarifying. Now, about setting up your company credit card: we’ll need the card number you want associated with expenses. You can read it in parts for security.

Target: Right, let me pull it up. Okay, so the first four numbers are five five zero seven. The next set is five eight one eight. After that, it’s one four one two, and it finishes with four seven eight six.

Other: Thank you, I’ll input that securely. Just to double-check, that’s 5507, 5818, 1412, and then 4786?

Target: That’s right.

Other: Perfect. Now for the HR legalities—do you identify with any particular pronouns, or should we stick with what’s shown on your documents?

Target: She/her is correct for me.

Other: Got it, I’ll note that down. Circling back to your previous experience, did you work in a similar field before joining us?

Target: I had a research assistant role right after I graduated, and then moved to a consulting firm for a while, but this is my first role with a focus on sustainability initiatives.

Other: That experience sounds like a good fit for our department. Switching gears—what drew you to apply here?

Target: Honestly, it was a combination of factors: the organization’s commitment to green technology, and having family roots in places where environmental policy makes a difference—since I grew up surrounded by the ocean, that really resonated with me.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. And it helps to have colleagues who have that firsthand connection. What’s been your favorite part of the onboarding so far?

Target: The mentorship program, for sure—the woman who’s mentoring me has been super encouraging. It makes a difference having someone to guide you, especially coming in as a woman in STEM.

Other: We definitely value diverse perspectives. So, you’ve got your degree, you’re already at work, and you’re bringing those unique cultural insights—seems like a win-win. Do you need anything from us to support your transition?

Target: Maybe some more resources on project management software. I’ve used a few during college, but each company has their own system, so any tutorials would be super useful.

Other: Absolutely, I’ll send you a few links this afternoon. Also, our HR portal has a section dedicated to ongoing learning—since you already have the bachelor’s, you might find the advanced certifications helpful too.

Target: Thanks for that. Always up for learning something new.

Other: And about the card info you provided, just so you know, our finance team may email you for a quick verification. If you get anything unusual, forward it to me first.

Target: Will do. I can always block off time to clarify if there are any issues with those digits—sometimes the sequences trip people up, since there’s no repeating pattern.

Other: That’s true. Last bit: could you email me a scan of a picture ID and proof of degree? We just need to complete your file.

Target: For sure, I have my university diploma scanned already. I’ll send that along with my license after this call.

Other: Perfect. Just confirming, your diploma is for a bachelor’s and your license lists you under “female”?

Target: Both correct, yes.

Other: Alright, that covers all our onboarding bases. Is there anything else on your mind, or questions about company policies?

Target: Not at the moment. Thanks for being thorough and walking me through this.

Other: Happy to help. It’s always nice to get to know team members a bit more on these calls—your background adds a lot to the team.

Target: Appreciate it! Looking forward to contributing.

Other: Welcome aboard, and if you need anything at all, just let me know.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-4 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hello, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Of course, glad to help. What brings you in?

Patient: I’ve just been feeling really drained lately, and my shoulders have been tense for weeks. Figured it was time to check in—make sure it’s nothing serious.

Doctor: I see, you mentioned you’ve been running low on energy and dealing with muscle tension. Is this a recent development, or has it been going on for a while?

Patient: The tiredness crept up on me about a month ago, maybe a bit longer. I always blamed it on work, to be honest. Things get hectic around the purchasing cycle—lots of deadlines, a ton of calls with vendors and my team. Most of my day is sitting at my desk, toggling between spreadsheets and emails.

Doctor: That sounds pretty demanding. Would you say the stress at work has increased lately?

Patient: It’s peak season now, so yeah. There’s a backlog of inventory—supply chain issues aren’t making things easy. Sometimes I’m coordinating between a warehouse on one side of the city and suppliers overseas, and everybody needs a decision right away. I can end up skipping breaks just to keep things moving.

Doctor: Are you taking time to decompress outside of work?

Patient: Not as much as I should. I spend a lot of my evenings with family. We tend to gather for dinner—my wife puts together these incredible laab plates and sticky rice, reminds me of when I was a kid. But after that, I usually crash in front of the TV or check emails again.

Doctor: I appreciate you describing your day. Do you get any regular physical activity?

Patient: Not really, no. Sometimes I’ll walk around the block with my dad or help set up tables for our neighborhood potlucks, but that’s about it.

Doctor: With the increased workload and less physical activity, that could be contributing to your muscle tension and fatigue. Any other symptoms? Fever, unexplained weight loss, changes in appetite or sleep?

Patient: My weight’s pretty much the same, maybe up a couple pounds. Sleep’s hit or miss. Some nights I’m up late, replaying conversations—or thinking about whether I ordered the right parts for our next shipment. Sometimes first thing in the morning, my lower back feels stiff. I didn’t notice any fevers though.

Doctor: Any underlying conditions I should be aware of? Diabetes, high blood pressure, anything like that?

Patient: High pressure runs in my family, but so far I’ve managed to avoid it. My mom keeps telling me stories about her own numbers, especially after big meals with lots of rice and grilled meats. I get checkups every year, but honestly, I never did much with the results—just figured I’d be okay as long as I was working and providing.

Doctor: Do you recall what your last blood pressure reading was?

Patient: Sorry, I don’t have the numbers off the top of my head. Nurse at the clinic last year said it was in the “normal-high” range—she did mention it might be something to keep an eye on, especially as men in my family tend to have those issues after forty.

Doctor: We’ll check your readings today. You mentioned you help coordinate family meals—can you tell me more about your diet?

Patient: Sure. It’s a lot of rice, grilled chicken or pork, tons of fresh herbs. We always have papaya salad and noodle soups on the weekends. When I’m pressed for time, I’ll grab fried chicken or a burger from the corner fast food spot. Hot sauce is a must for me—kind of grew up on it.

Doctor: Hard not to gravitate toward familiar foods. Have you found yourself eating out more lately, with the work pressure?

Patient: Yeah, honestly. Sometimes those late nights mean swinging by the nearest drive-thru. Back home, my folks ran a food stall, so home meals used to be the norm. Things change when you have to put in extra hours answering calls to suppliers in Thailand.

Doctor: I understand. Outside of food choices, are there other aspects of your routine that stress you out?

Patient: Communication’s always a challenge. Some of my team members didn’t grow up speaking English, so I try to make sure everyone’s on the same page, translating when necessary. Sometimes my accent throws people off on calls, which can get frustrating. But I know how it feels—coming here as a teenager, not having all the words. It took a while to feel fully at ease.

Doctor: It must have required a lot of adjustment at first. Is your family local, or are most of them still overseas?

Patient: My parents and siblings are here in town, but most of the extended family stayed in Southeast Asia. We keep in touch through video chats, especially during the New Year when everyone’s making khao tom and watching traditional dances. My kids are picking up pieces of Lao from their grandmother.

Doctor: Those connections are so important. Did you attend school locally after you arrived?

Patient: Yeah, I went to the public high school just down the road. Language was tough at first, but I did my best. After classes, I’d help my parents with their shop. I left before the end of senior year to join the workforce. Back then, bills needed paying and I felt I could help more by working, so I never got that cap and gown moment.

Doctor: That must not have been an easy decision at the time.

Patient: No, but looking back, supporting my family took priority. I started at a warehouse, loading trucks, moved up over the years. Now I’m in an office, managing purchase orders—after enough time the company trusted me with bigger responsibilities.

Doctor: It sounds like you’ve worked hard for every step.

Patient: I try my best. There aren’t many folks from my community in senior positions at work. Sometimes I feel out of place in big meetings—my coworkers will reference college experiences I can’t relate to. But when it comes to knowing the ins and outs of vendors or building trust with suppliers, that’s my lane.

Doctor: Building relationships is just as important as formal education in many fields. Do you have time for hobbies or things just for you?

Patient: Not much recently, but I love listening to old Morlam songs—takes me back. If there’s a temple celebration going on, I make time to go. Good for my spirit, and I see old friends from the community. They usually joke I’m the “fixer” because I can talk both to the elders and the younger folks.

Doctor: Community ties like that can be protective for mental health. Have you felt down or hopeless at all?

Patient: Maybe a bit, though I wouldn’t have used those words. More like overwhelmed—especially when I can’t keep everyone happy, at work or home. It’s heavy sometimes, trying to live up to expectations, keep the peace, and provide for my family. I know others have it harder, so I don’t want to complain.

Doctor: Talking about it is important regardless. Have you ever considered speaking with a counselor or support group?

Patient: Not until recently, no. There’s a bit of stigma where I come from—you work through your issues, don’t let it show. But I’ve been looking into some options, maybe support specific to Asian communities. My son showed me some resources online.

Doctor: That’s a positive step. In addition to counseling, making time for small breaks during your workday, even five minutes for a walk or breathing, can help. Have you been able to advocate for yourself at work when things get busy?

Patient: Sometimes, but there’s pressure to stay late if the team falls behind. I was put in charge of a few new hires, so when their training is slow, it reflects on me. I want to make sure they’re succeeding—not everyone has experience dealing with contracts or negotiating with factory reps.

Doctor: That’s a lot of responsibility. Have you ever thought about further education or professional training for yourself?

Patient: It’s crossed my mind. I check out online courses when I have time. Most management requires at least some college, but I get by on hands-on know-how. When paperwork comes up I can handle it, though sometimes the legal parts trip me up.

Doctor: If you’re ever interested, there are programs geared toward industry veterans—skills you can formalize without having to start from scratch.

Patient: I’ll think about it. I appreciate you saying that.

Doctor: Let’s circle back to your symptoms. On a scale of one to ten, how bad would you say the fatigue is by the end of your workday?

Patient: Most days, maybe a seven. By the time I make it home, all I want is a shower and to sit for a minute. Weekends are better—unless I have to cover for someone and check in on supplier deliveries.

Doctor: Any numbness or tingling with the shoulder pain?

Patient: Not really. Just a constant ache. Sometimes it travels down between my shoulder blades, but it never reaches my hands. Massages help, though I rarely get the time.

Doctor: Any history of injuries? Car accidents, heavy lifting incidents?

Patient: Nothing serious. Spent a number of years on the warehouse floor before moving up, but I was careful—I saw what happened to others who didn’t watch their backs. I try to show the new guys proper form when unloading trucks.

Doctor: Are you currently taking any medications, prescription or over-the-counter?

Patient: None regularly. If I get a headache, I reach for Tylenol or ibuprofen, but that’s it.

Doctor: Any allergies or adverse reactions to medications?

Patient: Not that I know of.

Doctor: How about tobacco, alcohol, or other substances?

Patient: I’ll have a beer at weddings or temple festivals, but that's rare. No smoking. My dad still chews betel sometimes, but I never picked up the habit.

Doctor: That’s good to hear. Walk me through a typical morning for you.

Patient: Up by 6:00, sometimes earlier if there are supplier calls scheduled. I help my wife get the kids ready, then grab a quick breakfast—usually leftover sticky rice or fried eggs. I’m checking emails before I even get out the front door. Then, it’s straight to the office where I spend most of my day on calls and checking on order statuses. Once or twice a week, I swing by my parents’ house after work to drop off groceries and check in.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing that. When was the last time you took a vacation or a substantial break from work?

Patient: A couple years ago, we made it out to the coast. Usually, I don’t take much time off. The one holiday I never miss is Pi Mai—New Year’s at the temple with family and old friends. Always get a kick out of seeing the younger generation learn the folk dances, even if they’re glued to their phones most of the time.

Doctor: Any upcoming travel plans?

Patient: My wife’s been trying to get me to visit her cousins in California—plenty of good Lao restaurants out there. We’ll see if I can clear my calendar.

Doctor: I hope you make the trip. Let’s get some preliminary lab work done and check your blood pressure. I also recommend a few basic stretches for your shoulders and neck. If you’re open to it, consider talking to someone about stress management—sometimes just having a neutral ear helps.

Patient: I’ll try it, doctor. Appreciate your time. I want to be around for a long time—for my family, and to see my grandkids make it through the local schools. We've made a life here, you know? I want to stay healthy to enjoy it.

Doctor: Absolutely—you’ve built a strong foundation, both at home and at work. I’ll send over some pamphlets tailored to your schedule and background, including information in both English and Lao if it’s helpful. We’ll follow up once we have your labs. In the meantime, stay hydrated, make a little time for yourself, and don’t hesitate to reach out sooner if things worsen.

Patient: Thank you, doctor. That means a lot. I’m glad there’s someone who understands—not everyone gets what it’s like juggling so many roles at once.

Doctor: I’m always here to support you. See you for your follow-up soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-98 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Good evening! I just got back from a run along the Ala Moana coastline, and I’m feeling more alive than I have all week. The sunsets down here have a way of turning your whole day around, you know?
Chatbot: That sounds beautiful! The beaches out that way are legendary. Is running something you do pretty regularly, or was tonight a special occasion?
Person: I try to do it every other day, weather permitting. It helps me unwind after the work day, and honestly, there’s no shortage of great running spots where I’m stationed. Whenever I see the old WWII pillboxes up by Kailua, I’m reminded of just how much history is baked into this island.
Chatbot: Those pillboxes are pretty iconic—and the views from up there are spectacular! Working near those sites must give you a unique perspective on both the local history and your daily routine. Do you find you have much free time outside of your duties?
Person: Free time comes and goes in waves, depending on the schedule and whether we’re prepping for any major activities. Most of my time is accounted for, especially now since my unit’s been getting ready for a joint training exercise out in the Pacific. But I do my best to make regular plans with friends, maybe catch a UH basketball game if I can swing it.
Chatbot: Sounds like you’re juggling a lot! Are your friends mostly folks you work with, or do you have a broader social circle?
Person: There’s a fair amount of overlap. Some are in my squad, and some I met back in college—actually, a bunch of us met while cramming for finals at the library, and we’ve kept in touch ever since. A few buddies are still on the mainland, but a surprising number ended up around Honolulu, which is luckier than I could’ve hoped.
Chatbot: That network must be a big support, especially being far from the mainland. What did you study back in college, if you don’t mind me asking?
Person: Business. I wasn’t totally sure what I wanted to do back then, but figured that field would open up some doors. I spent a lot of late nights on group projects and case studies, but in hindsight, handling all that teamwork paid off. Sometimes I joke that navigating chain-of-command now is just like wrangling a stubborn project group.
Chatbot: It’s interesting how much of college group work translates to professional teamwork! Have you found your business background comes in handy for your current line of duty?
Person: Absolutely. There’s a lot of logistics involved in what I do—making sure everyone has the right gear, supplies move where they should, and communications don’t get tangled. Having those organizational skills definitely helps with smooth operations, especially when your team’s counting on you.
Chatbot: You seem really passionate about managing those responsibilities. Did you always want to serve, or did your career path evolve over time?
Person: It’s a little bit of both, honestly. Family tradition played a part—several relatives went this route—and where I grew up, it’s the kind of thing that was just… expected, in a way. Plus, I wanted to see more of the world outside my hometown, and this seemed like a solid way to do it while giving back.
Chatbot: Tradition and a sense of service can be powerful motivators. You mentioned growing up somewhere with those expectations. If you’re comfortable sharing, was it very different from Hawaii?
Person: Oh, for sure. Where I’m from, English is just one of the languages you hear daily, but everyone is fiercely proud of being American. The food is a mix of Caribbean flavors, and we get all the good music festivals in the spring—carnival season was always a highlight. But the islands here have their own distinct vibe, and it’s been an adventure settling in.
Chatbot: That sounds like quite a cultural blend! Did you have any challenges acclimating when you moved, especially with those differences?
Person: At first, yes. I had to get used to folks pronouncing my last name differently, and I still miss my grandmother’s cooking every holiday. But overall, I’ve come to appreciate the diversity here. Plus, there’s always a block party or cultural festival happening somewhere in town. I might never get used to poke bowls over arroz con gandules, though!
Chatbot: It’s amazing how cuisine can make you feel at home—or remind you of home! Do you keep any family traditions alive while you’re living out there?
Person: Definitely. Even with the time zones and all, I never miss our Three Kings Day video chats. And I keep up my habit of playing dominoes whenever I can find willing opponents! My friends tease me, but it just doesn’t feel right to spend a weekend without it.
Chatbot: Sounds like you’re keeping those ties strong. With all those big moves and commitments, do you have time left for yourself or personal goals outside of work?
Person: I manage in bits and pieces. Reading has always been my go-to for some “me time.” I just finished a book about the rise of small businesses in post-disaster economies—not exactly light beach reading, but it was recommended by a professor I still keep in touch with. Occasionally, I’ll pick up some online coursework, too, just to keep my mind sharp.
Chatbot: That’s admirable! Lifelong learning can really pay off, especially in such dynamic environments. Have you thought about what you might want to do after your service, given your business acumen and commitment to helping others?
Person: I’ve mulled over a few options. Part of me wants to return home and help local startups get off the ground or maybe work with nonprofit groups focused on youth development. The other part is tempted to stay here a bit longer, maybe pursue an MBA or something similar. I figure the experience I’ve gained managing teams could translate well either way.
Chatbot: Either path sounds impactful. Out of curiosity, does your current role involve any mentoring or leadership training for younger team members?
Person: Yeah, mentoring is actually a big part of my duties now. I lead a small squad, mostly folks fresh out of school or new to the field. Helping them transition, teaching them what I’ve learned by trial and error—it’s rewarding, and it keeps me on my toes. Sometimes they call me “the professor” as a joke.
Chatbot: That nickname is a testament to your leadership! Thinking about your earlier college days—was pursuing higher education widely encouraged among your peers where you grew up?
Person: It was. My high school had this tradition of senior send-offs, especially for those headed to mainland colleges. A lot of us dreamed of going “stateside,” but plenty took pride in finishing their degrees closer to home. I had a few scholarships that made it possible, and my family made sure I knew how proud they were when I walked that graduation stage.
Chatbot: That’s a meaningful milestone. When you look back at those days, do you feel your education has shaped how you approach challenges now?
Person: Without a doubt. Those nights poring over spreadsheets and analyzing case studies taught me how to tackle a problem from multiple angles. And standing in front of professors defending a project proposal made it way easier to present mission plans now. I guess you could say college prepped me for public speaking and crisis management more than I realized at the time.
Chatbot: The ability to present and adapt are valuable skills in any environment. How do you balance the formality of work with the laid-back lifestyle that Hawaii is often known for?
Person: Funny enough, even with all the aloha spirit, things can be pretty structured for me. But on my days off, I make a point to “talk story” with neighbors or take a leisurely morning at a favorite café, just soaking in the atmosphere. I think having that contrast helps me reset.
Chatbot: “Talk story”—that’s such a wonderful expression. When do you feel most “at home” these days?
Person: Probably when I’m out paddleboarding at sunrise or grilling with friends at a local park, cracking open a cold drink after weeks of long shifts. There’s a sense of community here—like the island’s a small town where everyone knows someone who knows someone.
Chatbot: That community support really comes through in the way you talk about your life. Do you get the chance to go back home often?
Person: Not as often as I’d like. Flight schedules and duty rosters can be unpredictable. But when I do get time off, I’ll jet east for a spell, catch up with old friends, hit the beach, and maybe even judge a dominos tournament if my uncle is still running those.
Chatbot: That sounds like the perfect trip to recharge. Given your background and current experience, do you feel like you bring a unique perspective to your team?
Person: For sure. I’ve always straddled different worlds in a way—grew up with one foot in Caribbean customs and the other in U.S. systems. Coming from a place where resilience is second nature, I learned early on how to adapt fast. It serves me well working with folks from every corner of the country.
Chatbot: Adaptability is a superpower, especially in your line of work. If you had to pick, which local attraction or activity do you recommend to someone new to the islands?
Person: That’s a tough one! You can’t go wrong with snorkeling at Hanauma Bay or hiking up Diamond Head for the views. But honestly, the Friday night fireworks by Waikiki are a hidden gem—grab a plate lunch, find a spot on the sand, and enjoy the show.
Chatbot: Great suggestions! Out of curiosity, how does your family view your career choice? Are they supportive?
Person: They are, though I know the distances weigh on them sometimes. My parents have a shelf full of photos of my “overseas adventures,” as they call them. They liked to joke that my boots have seen more of the Pacific than theirs ever will. They definitely take pride in my service, even if it means celebrating birthdays over FaceTime.
Chatbot: FaceTime celebrations are a sign of the times! How do you feel about the balance between staying connected online and being present in your surroundings?
Person: It’s all about moderation. I used to be glued to my phone, but these days I value the moments offline. Sometimes I’ll just put the phone away, go for a swim, and chat with whoever’s firing up the grill nearby. Technology helps bridge the miles back to my roots, but I try not to forget to live in the moment out here.
Chatbot: That’s a healthy approach. Since you’ve moved around and experienced different places and cultures, do you ever feel a sense of rootlessness, or do you find ways to create home wherever you are?
Person: Maybe a bit of both. Deep down, I’ll always consider myself an islander at heart, no matter which ocean I’m close to. Home, for me, is more about the people I hold close—family, friends, even the crews I serve with. With the right crowd, any place can start to feel like home.
Chatbot: That’s a lovely way to put it. Has your outlook on life changed since moving to the islands and taking up your current profession?
Person: I think so. Living surrounded by so much natural beauty and seeing life from a strategic standpoint has made me more patient, more flexible. It’s also made me keenly aware of how important community and service are, not just to me, but in shaping the world around us.
Chatbot: It seems the islands have left their mark! Before you go—any advice for someone trying to balance career, personal growth, and staying true to their roots?
Person: Stay curious and open-minded, but don’t forget where you came from. Whether it’s sharing a favorite recipe, teaching someone your childhood games, or simply telling your story, those threads keep you anchored. And never underestimate the value of lifelong connections, especially when the world feels big and distances wide.
Chatbot: That’s sage advice. Thank you for sharing your story with me tonight!
Person: Anytime! Mahalo for the great conversation—it’s always good to pause and reflect on the journey.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_278 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Neuroepithelial cell

Neuroepithelial cells, or neuroectodermal cells, form the wall of the closed neural tube in early embryonic development. The neuroepithelial cells span the thickness of the tube's wall, connecting with the pial surface and with the ventricular or lumenal surface. They are joined at the lumen of the tube by junctional complexes, where they form a pseudostratified layer of epithelium called neuroepithelium.

Neuroepithelial cells are the stem cells of the central nervous system, known as neural stem cells, and generate the intermediate progenitor cells known as radial glial cells, that differentiate into neurons and glia in the process of neurogenesis.

Embryonic neural development

Brain development

During the third week of embryonic growth the brain begins to develop in the early fetus in a process called morphogenesis. Neuroepithelial cells of the ectoderm begin multiplying rapidly and fold in forming the neural plate, which invaginates during the fourth week of embryonic growth and forms the neural tube. The formation of the neural tube polarizes the neuroepithelial cells by orienting the apical side of the cell to face inward, which later becomes the ventricular zone, and the basal side is oriented outward, which contacts the pial, or outer surface of the developing brain. As part of this polarity, neuroepithelial cells express prominin-1 in the apical plasma membrane as well as tight junctions to maintain the cell polarity. Integrin alpha 6 anchors the neuroepithelial cells to the basal lamina. The neural tube begins as a single layer of pseudostratified epithelial cells, but rapid proliferation of neuroepithelial cells creates additional layers and eventually three distinct regions of growth. As these additional layers form the apical-basal polarity must be downregulated.  Further proliferation of the cells in these regions gives rise to three distinct areas of the brain: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The neural tube also gives rise to the spinal cord.

Neuroepithelial cell proliferation

Neuroepithelial cells are a class of stem cell and have the ability to self-renew. During the formation of the neural tube, neuroepithelial cells undergo symmetric proliferative divisions that give rise to two new neuroepithelial cells. At a later stage of brain development, neuroepithelial cells begin to self renew and give rise to non-stem cell progenitors, such as radial glial cells simultaneously by undergoing asymmetric division. Expression of Tis21, an antiproliferative gene, causes the neuroepithelial cell to make the switch from proliferative division to neuronic division. Many of the neuroepithelial cells also divide into radial glial cells, a similar, but more fate restricted cell. Being a more fate restricted cell the radial glial cell will either generate postmitotic neurons, intermediate progenitor cells, or astrocytes in gliogenesis. During neuroepithelial cell division, interkinetic nuclear migration allows the cells to divide unrestricted while maintaining a dense packing. During G1 the cell nucleus migrates to the basal side of the cell and remains there for S phase and migrates to the apical side for G2 phase. This migration requires the help of microtubules and actin filaments.

Radial glial cell transition
Neuroepithelial cells give rise to radial glial progenitor cells in early embryonic development. To make this change, neuroepithelial cells begin to downregulate their epithelial features, by stopping the expression of occludin, a tight junction protein. Loss of occludin causes a loss of the previous tight junction seals which is required for the generation of neuroblasts. Another tight junction protein, PARD3, remains at the apical side of the cell co-localizing with N-cadherin and keeps the apical face of the neuroepithelial cell intact. In the absence of occludin some polarity is still lost and the neuroepithelial cell gives rise to the radial glial cell.

Adult neurogenesis

Genesis of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-19 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, so I’ve got this school project where I’m supposed to come up with a creative short story, but I’m kinda stuck. Can you help brainstorm some ideas?
Chatbot: Absolutely! I’d love to help. What kind of themes interest you—fantasy, adventure, sci-fi, realistic, or maybe something inspired by your own life or family?
Person: Hmm, my grandma’s always telling me about when she was my age back in Chennai, and I think something with a family connection could work. Maybe a story about someone discovering a secret about their ancestors?
Chatbot: That’s a really strong starting point! You could have the main character find an old diary or artifact that reveals something surprising about their ancestors. Maybe it connects to a famous event or tradition from Chennai. Would you like to include any elements from your daily life as well?
Person: Yeah, I like when stories have a mix of old traditions and modern stuff. Oh, and maybe the main character has a sibling around, since I always have my little brother tagging along in everything I do.
Chatbot: That’s great! Having siblings adds more interaction and drama. Perhaps the siblings uncover the secret together, leading them through a series of challenges. Do you want the setting to be in India, or somewhere more similar to where you live now?
Person: Maybe it starts here and then goes back to India through the story or a dream, kind of like when I listen to my grandma speaking Tamil at home, it feels like being there for a second. What kind of secret could be interesting? Maybe something related to music since my family is always playing old Bollywood songs.
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful idea! What if the secret is about a piece of music composed by an ancestor that had a big impact? The siblings could discover a mysterious melody, and as they trace its origin, they learn about their family’s role in a significant moment of Indian musical history. How does that sound?
Person: Oh, that’s cool! And maybe there’s something magical about the song, like it brings stories from the past alive. I’m really liking where this is going. By the way, can you help me figure out a plot twist? 
Chatbot: Sure! What if the song they discover seems incomplete—a verse is missing. As they search for the rest, they realize it’s hidden in separate places: one clue is in an old photo, another in a family heirloom, and the final piece is something only their grandmother remembers. The twist? When the melody is completed, it reveals a hidden message that changes how they see their own family.
Person: Awesome. My teacher said to use something personal, so maybe I could tie in the fact that I have to deal with grown-up stuff sometimes, even though I’m still in the 8th grade. Like, I always have to help my cousin with his homework, but secretly I’m sometimes jealous when he gets to stay up later than me.
Chatbot: That’s a very relatable angle. Many readers would connect with a character experiencing those feelings. Maybe in the story, the main character is also balancing the responsibilities of helping family, and it shapes the choices they make on the adventure.
Person: Yeah, I notice sometimes in stories, the youngest siblings aren’t taken seriously, so it’s fun if my character actually solves something that the adults missed. Oh, wait, speaking of adults—my cousin got married super young (my grandma says it’s normal back home), but I still think it’s wild! Could that be in the story too?
Chatbot: Absolutely! You could introduce a subplot about family expectations or traditions around marriage—maybe one of the secrets the siblings uncover is about a relative who made a bold choice about their marriage that resonates with the main character. It would add emotional depth and connect it even more to your own family’s stories.
Person: That’s really cool. I think it would feel true, especially because a lot of the stories my family tells have these big life events, even when people are really young. My grandma’s always saying, “Back in the day, 13 was different than today!”
Chatbot: That gives your story authenticity and a strong cultural connection. Do you want your main character to learn something important about relationships or family along the way?
Person: Yeah, maybe at first he thinks his family is old-fashioned, but by the end he understands why they do the things they do, even if he wants to make his own choices. That feels right. 
Chatbot: I love that character growth for your protagonist. It’s a relatable journey—balancing tradition and modern life. Is there anything about your cultural background or family experiences you want to highlight more, like a specific festival, food, or even music style?
Person: Hm… Well, my favorite time at home is when we do Diwali celebrations. We eat sweets, and sometimes my dad lets me try lighting sparklers in the backyard, even though my mom freaks out about safety! Maybe the big reveal in the story happens during a festival night?
Chatbot: That would be an exciting and vivid setting! Diwali is perfect—so colorful and full of energy. The festival atmosphere can make the final scene really memorable. Maybe the melody echoes through the celebrations, and the siblings realize what it means under the fireworks. Would you want the story to end with a resolution, or keep a little mystery for readers to think about?
Person: I think leaving a little mystery would be cool—so maybe the melody is heard by everyone at the festival, but only the siblings know its true meaning. That way, it’s their secret too.
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful choice. It invites readers to imagine what might happen next. Are there any other themes or personal touches you’d like to incorporate? Sometimes small details from your everyday life can make the world feel more lived-in for readers.
Person: Actually, it could be funny if I sneak in something about being the youngest in the family always having to empty the dishwasher when cricket’s on TV. It’s like my unspoken job, even though I keep telling everyone I should be watching too—especially during major matches!
Chatbot: That’s a great slice-of-life detail. Small everyday moments like that really bring a character to life, especially when they contrast with the magical adventure elements. You could even have the character grumble about chores before being swept into the mystery.
Person: Perfect! And the sibling rivalry too—like, my little brother always manages to get our parents’ attention, but in the story maybe the older sibling gets most of the praise, and the main character feels left out until he proves himself.
Chatbot: Absolutely. A dynamic like that will make your characters’ emotional journeys feel real. And by the end, both siblings can come to appreciate each other in new ways, which adds to the story’s warmth.
Person: You know, I like including things like having to practice the veena—it’s one of those instruments my grandma made my mom learn, and now she’s pushing me to try it too, even though I prefer piano. Maybe music classes are how the siblings get their first clue?
Chatbot: Definitely! Perhaps the music teacher gives them an old piece of sheet music dating back to their ancestor’s time, sparking their investigation. This could tie in nicely with family expectations and individual interests—another layer of your story’s themes.
Person: This is awesome, I have so many ideas now! By the way, if the main character is about my age, what’s the best way to show he’s a real kid and not just a mini adult? Sometimes I don’t want adults to think I know everything.
Chatbot: Great question! You can show authenticity by including internal doubts, playful moments, or goofy mistakes. Maybe he says the wrong thing in class, grumbles about bedtime, or sneaks extra gulab jamun at festivals. Letting him have childish reactions makes him more relatable.
Person: Yeah, that makes sense. Like, last week my parents wouldn’t let me stay up past 10, even though my older cousin says I’m mature for my age. It made me think, sometimes people forget you’re still a kid just because you act responsibly.
Chatbot: Exactly! Reflecting those feelings in your character will make the story ring true for other kids in your class—and even for adults reading it. Do you want to add any special friendship or mentor character to help the siblings along the way?
Person: Maybe their grandma could be the guide. She doesn’t give them all the answers but tells stories that drop hints. Kind of like how my grandma will tell me parables from the Mahabharata, but only if I finish my homework first!
Chatbot: That would be a wonderful addition—she could be mysterious and wise, passing on knowledge while letting the kids solve things for themselves. Her presence would also reinforce the family’s cultural roots and intergenerational bonds.
Person: Connection between generations is a big thing in my family, for sure. Sometimes, when my grandma talks about what school was like back home, it makes me wonder how much things have changed. She always says learning Tamil is important, but sometimes I mix up words and everyone laughs!
Chatbot: Those moments of gentle humor can be great for your story, too. It shows the challenges of balancing two cultures and languages—maybe your character gets into a funny situation by mispronouncing a word during a festival speech or song?
Person: Totally, I’ll add that! By the way, is it okay if my main character’s family is similar to mine? Like, we do all these blended traditions—my mom grew up in Chennai but we live here, and everyone looks different in family pictures because of all the aunties and uncles marrying from different parts of India.
Chatbot: That makes the story richer and more authentic. Showcasing a diverse family background and various traditions will help readers learn about new cultures while also seeing the universal experiences of growing up. It’s a fantastic choice for your project.
Person: Thanks, this has been so much help! I really want to get a good grade—my last birthday, I wished for straight As, but so far science is still hard. Maybe my main character has to pass a tricky test at the festival too!
Chatbot: That’s a great way to add tension and reflect your own experiences. Perhaps the story’s climax is both solving the music mystery and succeeding in some festival challenge or competition. It’s a satisfying ending that mirrors both real and magical achievements.
Person: I think I’m all set then! Oh, one last thing—should the siblings have a pet? I know not everyone in our block has dogs, but my friends keep asking when we’ll get one.
Chatbot: A pet is always a fun addition! Maybe a clever parrot or a mischievous monkey could help them along the way. In many Indian stories, animals are both comic relief and sources of wisdom. It could fit right in with your theme of family and tradition.
Person: That would be funny—a parrot who only repeats song lyrics from old movies! I like it. I’ll start outlining all these ideas tonight, right after dinner. My mom says I can’t slack off since exams are coming up, but I bet I’ll sneak in some writing.
Chatbot: You’ve gathered so many thoughtful elements for your story. Good luck with your project—I’m sure it’ll reflect your creativity, family, and unique background. If you need more help, just ask!
Person: Thanks! You were a huge help, seriously. And hey, someday when I’m older, maybe I’ll write a whole novel about kids like me juggling cricket, school, and family stories. For now, short stories will do!
Chatbot: That’s a fantastic goal! Step by step—you’ll get there. Enjoy writing, learning, and sharing your story. I’m always here if you want to brainstorm again.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-99 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today. I know you had to squeeze me in.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all. How have you been feeling? Is there something specific you wanted to talk about?

Patient: Yeah, so I’ve been getting these really bad headaches lately. It started about two weeks ago, and at first I just thought maybe it was the altitude or the weather shifting since spring finally hit, but they’re not letting up.

Doctor: I see, headaches can be difficult. Are they concentrated in one part of your head? Any vision changes or sensitivity to light?

Patient: Mostly just this throbbing across my temples, sometimes at the back, too. And I do get a bit sensitive to light when they’re really bad, like I need to pull the shades down. I haven’t noticed anything else with my vision, but sometimes I get dizzy. It’s weird because it happens most often in the mornings, especially after days when I’m on my feet a lot.

Doctor: How’s your sleep schedule? Any issues staying asleep or waking up?

Patient: It’s hit or miss. My schedule always kind of depends on my clients. Some days I’m booked solid with appointments and stay late doing color or styling—other days I just answer calls from people looking to reschedule. Actually, lately, I haven’t been going to the salon since it’s being renovated, so I’ve been doing house calls for regulars and catching up with the training videos my company sends to our staff. But with the extra driving around and the late nights, my sleep has definitely been patchy.

Doctor: That sounds exhausting. So you’re balancing house visits for your clients and ongoing training?

Patient: Pretty much. With our salon prepping to reopen, my boss wants us up to date on the latest trends, so sometimes I spend hours practicing styles on mannequin heads at home. And when I’m not fixing people’s roots or trimming split ends, I’m calling suppliers to make sure our next shipment of shampoo won’t get delayed by the snow on I-70 again.

Doctor: That’s a tough commute! Have you noticed if the headaches worsen after those longer drives through the mountains?

Patient: Actually, yeah. Two weeks ago I had to do a big loop outside of Denver and up to Evergreen for an appointment. After that, my headaches really started intensifying. I was stuck in traffic by Floyd Hill, windows up, breathing in product fumes from my kit, so maybe that didn’t help.

Doctor: Hmm, sometimes fumes or fragrances can trigger headaches, especially for people in your line of work. Do you wear a mask or use ventilation when using hairsprays and such?

Patient: I try, but it depends on the client’s setup. At the salon, it’s easy because the air system’s great, but at someone’s house, I can’t always open a window, especially when it’s snowing. And let’s be honest, no matter how many times I wash my hands after braiding in extensions, the perfumed waxes linger for days.

Doctor: Good point. Have you noticed if there are any patterns—certain products or days of the week it’s worse?

Patient: Fridays for sure, because that’s when all the wedding parties want blowouts and updos. I go through so many cans of hold spray my fingers cramp. But since the salon’s closed for now, my headaches actually have shifted, which is weird. I expected them to get better.

Doctor: How about your caffeine intake? Sometimes we see rebound headaches if people increase or decrease their coffee.

Patient: That might be it! Honestly, the past month I’ve been living off iced lattes—one in hand by 7 am, another before noon. And then, since I’m not at the shop, I forget to grab lunch and wind up with a headache by three.

Doctor: Nutrition matters, too. Do you have much time for proper meals with your current routine?

Patient: I try, but it depends. My parents used to call every day at dinnertime just to check in, but now I’m either shampooing someone’s hair or in the car, so I miss those calls. Sometimes, before bed, I just heat up some leftover bulgogi I made on Sunday. My mom says it’s better than ramen at least.

Doctor: Your mom sounds wise! And those traditional recipes are probably much better for you than takeout. You mentioned your parents—do they live close by?

Patient: Not too far—just down in Aurora. We used to get together at that big Korean barbecue place on Havana Street whenever someone got a promotion. Lately, though, I haven’t had time to see them much.

Doctor: Family can be good support when you’re not feeling well. When you do see them, do you notice any improvement in your mood or headaches?

Patient: Actually, yes. Just sitting down for a meal, swapping stories about their early days in Seoul or how they first handled snow when they moved here—it's comforting. Sometimes I wish I could see them more, but life gets in the way.

Doctor: Emotional stress can certainly play a role. Have you traveled recently, or had any major life changes besides the salon renovations?

Patient: Nothing big, but with the new year, there’s always more paperwork. My sister teases me for being the “official form-filler” in the family—taxes, DMV deadlines, even registering to vote every couple of years. I took care of our ballots the last time we had an election.

Doctor: That’s a big responsibility. You’ve been a resident here for quite a while, then?

Patient: Yeah, I’ve called the Front Range home for years now. I still remember lining up bright and early at the rec center, holding all my documents in the biggest folder you’ve ever seen. Never been so nervous in my life, but the staff there were so friendly! Now I love hiking at Red Rocks and popping down to Boulder for the food trucks on Pearl Street.

Doctor: You’re certainly making the most of it! So with the headaches, I’d like to check if there’s any neurological concern—do you have any numbness, weakness, or trouble speaking?

Patient: No numbness, thank goodness. My hands get tired after holding a blow dryer for half an hour, but I think that’s just from the repetitive motions. Friends always joke that I should switch to massage therapy, but it’s hard to give up the color and fun of hair styling. You know, the satisfaction of someone loving their new look is kind of addictive.

Doctor: Occupational strain can definitely take its toll. Have you experienced any wrist or shoulder pain as well?

Patient: Wrists, yes—especially after back-to-back appointments. At least it’s easier now since I’m more in charge of my own schedule. But when I worked six days a week at the salon, without fail, I’d wake up with stiff fingers.

Doctor: Let’s look into some stretches you can do between clients to relieve tension. For the headaches, I also want to look at hydration—do you drink plenty of water?

Patient: I try, but with all the coffee and being in people’s houses—not always easy to remember. And sometimes I worry if the tap water tastes funny out here, so I stick with bottled if I can.

Doctor: It’s always better to drink more water, regardless. How about your time off? Getting any relaxation or just focused on work?

Patient: A little of both. Right now, since I’m not in the salon, work’s flexible. I’ve been binging K-dramas again—my guilty pleasure. Got sucked into one last night and next thing I know, the clock says midnight. That probably didn’t help my sleep either!

Doctor: Those shows are addictive! It’s important to recharge, though. Do you ever take a proper day off, or do you fill up your schedule?

Patient: I really should, doctor. My mom keeps telling me to join her at the teahouse in Cherry Creek for a proper break. You’d think with the Rockies right here I’d get out more, but when your work travels with you, it’s hard to leave it behind.

Doctor: I understand. These stressors can build up. How are you feeling emotionally, aside from the headaches and the workload?

Patient: To be honest, I’m a bit anxious. I want to make sure I keep my regulars happy while the salon’s closed, but not exhaust myself. And there’s always pressure—helping people get ready for job interviews or proms, people expect you to make them look their best. I love that part, but sometimes it’s a lot.

Doctor: Have you found it helpful to talk with friends or family about your stress?

Patient: I try, especially with my sister. We laugh about how we were the only kids in school with seaweed rolls for lunch. But she understands. We both help out at my parents’ shop sometimes, so she gets the pressure.

Doctor: That community support is so important. I want to make sure the headaches aren’t from blood pressure or something more serious, so let’s check that during your visit. Do you have any allergies or sensitivities to medications?

Patient: Nothing serious, unless Advil counts. I’ll sometimes take one for the headaches but hate taking anything unless I have to.

Doctor: Okay, we’ll avoid over-the-counter use unless absolutely necessary. How about your general health—any recent illnesses or infections?

Patient: Just the occasional sniffle. I got a sore throat after one long day, but it went away. No fever. I got my flu shot at King Soopers with everyone else in my neighborhood. Tried to sign up my mom, but she wanted to go with her church group instead—they made a whole outing of it.

Doctor: Good for you for getting vaccinated. Do you get regular check-ups with your dentist and optometrist?

Patient: Dentist, yes—I have a dentist I trust up in Westminster. Eye exam's overdue, though. With all the tiny braids and detail work I do, I know I should go soon. My vision hasn’t changed much, I don’t think, but it’s probably time.

Doctor: It sounds like you’re on top of your preventative care overall. Any long-standing conditions I should know about?

Patient: Nothing major. I had eczema as a kid, which flared up a bit when I started using more hair dyes. My parents always worried since their skin is a bit more sensitive, too.

Doctor: That’s good to know. For the headaches, I’d suggest starting a journal—write down the time, what you ate, your activity, and how bad the pain was. This can help us pinpoint triggers.

Patient: That sounds doable. I can keep it on my phone, maybe jot things down between appointments. My calendar is already a mess with appointments, but I can make it work.

Doctor: Great idea. While you’re in this transition period before the salon reopens, can you prioritize sleep and meal breaks? Maybe even block off an afternoon or two for yourself?

Patient: I’ll try, especially now that I’m mostly running calls from my living room instead of standing behind a chair all day. My cat likes having me home more, at least—she’s become the ultimate lap warmer during my breaks.

Doctor: Animals can be great stress relievers! One last thing: are you currently covered for health insurance, and do you have a primary provider outside of me?

Patient: Yeah, I get coverage through the salon. We all signed up as a group a couple of years ago. The paperwork was a hassle, but the HR lady walked us through it. My mom kept every copy of the documents, just in case. That’s probably where I get my habit of double-checking everything.

Doctor: Good, that gives us more flexibility. Is there anything else on your mind or any other symptoms you’re worried about?

Patient: Not really, just hoping to get these headaches under control before wedding season starts. Once we’re back at the shop, I expect things will get way busier. I want to be at my best—nobody wants a stylist with a headache!

Doctor: Let’s make that our goal. I’ll write up a summary of our plan and get you started with the headache journal. Drink plenty of water, try for more consistent sleep, and consider reducing caffeine just a bit—gradually, so you don’t get rebound headaches. And remember to reach out if anything new comes up or if your symptoms worsen.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I really appreciate it. I’ll try the journal and update you, especially if anything changes.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Take things one step at a time, and remember, taking care of yourself helps you take care of your clients, too. I’ll see you at your next appointment!

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. See you soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_83 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# C mathematical functions

C mathematical operations are a group of functions in the standard library of the C programming language  implementing basic mathematical functions. All functions use floating-point numbers in one manner or another. Different C standards provide different, albeit backwards-compatible, sets of functions. Most of these functions are also available in the C++ standard library, though in different headers (the C headers are included as well, but only as a deprecated compatibility feature).

Overview of functions 

Most of the mathematical functions are defined in <math.h> (<cmath> header in C++). The functions that operate on integers, such as abs, labs, div, and ldiv, are instead defined in the <stdlib.h> header (<cstdlib> header in C++).

Any functions that operate on angles use radians as the unit of angle.

Not all of these functions are available in the C89 version of the standard. For those that are, the functions accept only type double for the floating-point arguments, leading to expensive type conversions in code that otherwise used single-precision float values. In C99, this shortcoming was fixed by introducing new sets of functions that work on float and long double arguments. Those functions are identified by f and l suffixes respectively.

Floating-point environment 

C99 adds several functions and types for fine-grained control of floating-point environment. These functions can be used to control a variety of settings that affect floating-point computations, for example, the rounding mode, on what conditions exceptions occur, when numbers are flushed to zero, etc. The floating-point environment functions and types are defined in <fenv.h> header (<cfenv> in C++).

Complex numbers 

C99 adds a new _Complex keyword (and complex convenience macro; only available if the <complex.h> header is included) that provides support for complex numbers. Any floating-point type can be modified with complex, and is then defined as a pair of floating-point numbers. Note that C99 and C++ do not implement complex numbers in a code-compatible way – the latter instead provides the class .

All operations on complex numbers are defined in the <complex.h> header. As with the real-valued functions, an f or l suffix denotes the float complex or long double complex variant of the function.

A few more complex functions are "reserved for future use in C99". Implementations are provided by open-source projects that are not part of the standard library.

Type-generic functions 

The header <tgmath.h> defines a type-generic macro for each mathematical function defined in <math.h> and <complex.h>. This adds a limited support for function overloading of the mathematical functions: the same function name can be used with different types of parameters; the actual function will be selected  at compile time according to the types of the parameters.

Each type-generic macro that corresponds to a function that is defined for both real and complex numbers encapsulates a total of 6 different functions: float, double and long double, and their complex variants. The type-generic macros that correspond to a function that is defined for only real numbers encapsulates a total of 3 different functions: float, double and long double variants of the function.

The C++ language includes native support for function overloading and thus does not provide the <tgmath.h> header even as a compatibility feature.

Random-number generation 

The header <stdlib.h> (<cstdlib> in C++) defines several functions that can be used for statistically random number generation.

The arc4random family of random number functions are not defined in POSIX standard, but is found in some common libc implementations. It used to refer to the keystream generator of a leaked version of RC4 cipher (hence "alleged RC4"), but different algorithms, usually from other ciphers like ChaCha20, have been implemented since using the same name.

The quality of randomness from rand are usually too weak to...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-34 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi, thanks for seeing me today. I’ve been having trouble with my energy lately, and I just want to make sure there’s nothing big going on.

Doctor: Of course—happy to help. Can you tell me a bit more about how you’ve been feeling and when you started noticing these changes?

Patient: So I’m pretty used to being on my feet a lot, since my job keeps me moving with patients most of the day, but lately, I’m just wiped out before my afternoon break. I noticed the slump really started a few weeks back and hasn’t improved much.

Doctor: That sounds frustrating, especially given the pace of your work. Just to clarify, you’re working in patient care, correct?

Patient: Yeah, I’m a medical assistant. I work alongside the nurses doing a lot of hands-on stuff—vitals, prepping exam rooms, drawing blood, you know. I don’t really sit much during a shift.

Doctor: That’s demanding work, and exhaustion can definitely be a concern with that schedule. Are you currently working full-time, or is this part-time?

Patient: Full-time, yes. I’m at the clinic during regular business hours, five days a week. So I’m at work most days unless I’m sick.

Doctor: Got it. Other than the fatigue, have you noticed any changes in your sleep pattern, appetite, weight, or mood?

Patient: I’ve actually been sleeping pretty well. Appetite is normal, not a lot of fluctuation with my weight either. My mood’s been steady, I just get frustrated with myself because I’m usually able to handle the pace without feeling so dragged out.

Doctor: On average, how many hours of sleep are you getting per night?

Patient: Usually six or seven if I’m lucky. My schedule’s not too bad now, so I can usually get to bed before midnight. But I do have to be up early for clinic.

Doctor: That’s helpful to know. Any recent illnesses, new medications, or health changes? 

Patient: No new meds or illnesses. I did have a mild cold at the end of September, but nothing since then. No new allergies or anything either.

Doctor: I see. When did you last have lab work done?

Patient: My last blood test was about eight months ago, during our annual employee checkup. 

Doctor: And that lab work looked fine at the time?

Patient: Yeah, nothing stood out. They just mentioned my vitamin D was a smidge low and suggested I get some more sun or take a supplement.

Doctor: Are you taking a vitamin D supplement now?

Patient: I started taking over-the-counter drops about four months ago.

Doctor: Excellent. Now, can you verify some personal info for me before we go further? Just your date of birth please.

Patient: Sure, it’s the second day of October, 1994.

Doctor: Thank you. And just to confirm, are all your contact details still current? Especially your primary cell?

Patient: Yes, my number's still seven-three-one, three two five, forty-three eighty-two.

Doctor: Perfect. Now, in terms of your background—where did you grow up?

Patient: I was born here in the States. My family’s always lived in Tennessee. Never moved out of the country or anything like that.

Doctor: That’s helpful for your records. Going back to your daily routine—how does your job schedule impact your eating habits and chances for regular exercise?

Patient: Well, with clinic hours, lunch is squeezed in between patients, but I usually pack healthy stuff. I do try to take a quick walk during my break, but honestly, I’m moving around all the time doing my rounds. Wrangling patients is basically my cardio!

Doctor: It definitely sounds like you get a fair bit of activity. Do you have time or energy left in the evenings for anything else?

Patient: By the time I get home, I’m usually too tired to do much more than watch a show or go on social. I sometimes meet up with friends from my old college classes for dinner or coffee, but I didn’t stick around for a whole year there, so we don’t have a ton of reunions.

Doctor: Right, college can be a busy, whirlwind time even for those who don’t stay long. Did you leave school to start working in healthcare, or was it unrelated?

Patient: Yeah, I started out in college after high school, tried out some pre-nursing classes, but after a couple semesters, I decided I wanted to work sooner. That’s when I went into the medical assistant program instead. So I don’t have my degree yet, but I got enough credits to do my current role.

Doctor: That’s good to know. Sometimes being constantly on the move can sneak up on you. Do you drink coffee or energy drinks to help you get through your long shifts?

Patient: Oh definitely. Usually a large coffee in the morning and sometimes one in the afternoon if the clinic’s busy.

Doctor: Are you experiencing any headaches, dizziness, or palpitations along with the tiredness?

Patient: Nothing serious. Just the tired feeling, like I need to nap, but no headaches or anything like that. Once in a while, a little lightheaded if I skip breakfast, but otherwise, I’m okay.

Doctor: That’s helpful information. I’d recommend we check some updated labs, just to look at your iron, thyroid, and vitamin levels, considering your busy schedule. How does that sound?

Patient: That works for me. I want to get to the bottom of it so I can keep up with my patients and not let anyone down.

Doctor: That’s understandable. In your line of work, feeling sharp is crucial. I’ll send the lab request to the front desk for you. You can get them drawn today, and we’ll follow up once the results are back—shouldn’t take more than a few days.

Patient: Awesome, thanks. If I need to update anything, I’ll just call, right? Or should I text?

Doctor: Calling our main line is best. If we need to reach you, we’ll use the number on file—the one ending in forty-three eighty-two. If you haven’t heard from us in a week, definitely reach out.

Patient: Got it. Thanks a lot for your help today.

Doctor: You’re very welcome. I hope we get you feeling back to your usual self soon.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-75 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for fitting me into your schedule—it’s been pretty hectic lately.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all, always happy to see you. What brings you in today?

Patient: Honestly, there’s a bunch of little things. For starters, I just can’t seem to shake this cough. It’s not terrible, but it’s stubborn, and with my current workload stress, I wanted to make sure it’s nothing serious.

Doctor: How long have you had the cough? Any fever, chest pain, or shortness of breath?

Patient: I think it’s been going on for about two weeks. At first, I blamed it on staying up late—we’re in production for a new project and editing goes into the early hours. No fever, no pain, but I do sometimes feel slightly wheezy when I laugh or talk a lot, especially during our brainstorming sessions or read-throughs.

Doctor: Are you exposed to dust, chemicals, or any smoke while working?

Patient: Sometimes, yeah. We’ve been shooting on location, sometimes in older buildings, plus the guys in props occasionally use those fog machines. Plus, one of the stunts had some pyros—mostly safe, but that stuff lingers in the air.

Doctor: Thanks, that’s helpful. Are you working mostly indoors or outdoors?

Patient: Indoor for the most part, but we did a week out in the desert where I was constantly running between set and equipment trucks—lots of temperature shifts and wind.

Doctor: I see. Do you have any allergies that you know of? And do you smoke?

Patient: No, never smoked. As for allergies, my mom used to say I sneezed every time she cooked shrimp, but nothing severe that I know of. Maybe mild hay fever, but nothing that ever knocked me out of commission.

Doctor: Do you remember the last time you had something like this? Have you traveled recently?

Patient: Nothing this persistent. And yeah, actually—I flew from San Diego to New York last month for a training with the rest of my unit. It was right before principal shooting started, super tight schedule, and the air on planes always gets me.

Doctor: Has anyone around you been sick recently?

Patient: Half the crew got hit with colds. Craft services kept putting out massive trays of citrus, hoping vitamin C would help us out, but I still ended up with this cough.

Doctor: I can see why you’d want to be cautious. Has it affected your voice or energy levels on the job?

Patient: My voice, yeah—a little hoarse, which isn’t so great when I’m directing actors. My energy’s drained, too, but that’s not unusual after 18-hour days. As soon as we wrap, I try to get a nap in the trailer before I check in with the staff back at the base.

Doctor: When you say "base," are you referring to your work with the military, or is it a studio term?

Patient: Oh, both, actually. My main gig is producing, but I’m still with my reserve team. They like my “lead from the front” vibe, so I juggle production meetings with morning drills. Keeps me on my toes, but it also means sleep comes at a premium.

Doctor: That’s a demanding schedule. How are you managing stress?

Patient: I keep telling myself there’s a wrap party at the end of it. Jokes aside, I try mindfulness apps and call my parents most Sundays—sometimes they remind me to slow down, usually over the phone from back home or, if I’m lucky, over one of my mom’s homemade lumpia dinners.

Doctor: That sounds delicious. Do you have family nearby?

Patient: Not really. My folks are a state away now, but we try to stay connected. They always keep me grounded, especially with our family stories and some of the old Tagalog phrases sprinkled in conversations. Reminds me not to get lost in all the Hollywood chaos, you know?

Doctor: Absolutely, it’s so important to have those connections. You mentioned family meals—how’s your diet lately?

Patient: Could be better, Doc. I eat what’s available on set, which means way too many bagels and coffee. Whenever I can, I sneak home to make adobo or kare-kare, but mostly I’m at the mercy of the catering truck. Some days I miss the full rice cooker at family get-togethers.

Doctor: Are you able to get regular exercise with your schedule?

Patient: Besides running around wrangling cast and crew? Not as much structured exercise as I’d like. But my friends at the base have this unwritten rule—no skipping PT, even if I’m working late the night before. They’ll text me at dawn to make sure I show up. It’s a little brutal, but sometimes I think it’s the only thing keeping my joints in shape.

Doctor: That keeps you accountable! Any aches, other than feeling run down?

Patient: Lower back’s a bit tight, especially after dragging cables and lighting rigs. I was actually talking with one of the grips about swapping stretches—he’s an old hand on sets and knows all the tricks for not pulling things.

Doctor: Are you experiencing any joint swelling or weakness?

Patient: No swelling. Just a bit of stiffness in my right wrist—probably from holding the camera too long while doing that tracking shot last week. I tried using one of those compression sleeves, and it seemed to help.

Doctor: Have you had any issues with sleep, apart from being busy and tired?

Patient: Yeah, sleep is a mess. Between calls home, checking scripts, and the usual pre-dawn drills, I’m lucky if I get five hours. Sometimes I try to nap with headphones on, listening to OPM playlists or a recorded meditation. I probably need to unplug more.

Doctor: OPM? That helps you relax?

Patient: Original Pilipino Music, Doc! It’s what I grew up with. My dad always had it playing during Saturday cleaning. Even if I don’t always understand every word, it brings back a sense of home, kind of takes the edge off the stress.

Doctor: It’s great that you have that comfort. Any history of sleep disorders, like insomnia or sleep apnea in the family?

Patient: My uncle had sleep apnea, but for me, it’s just racing thoughts. I get a lot of emails from both coasts, sometimes even from overseas. The time zones make everything blur together.

Doctor: Understood. Let’s switch gears—are you taking any medications or supplements currently?

Patient: Just a daily multivitamin, and I threw some vitamin C in after one of my sergeants told me to. I try to drink turmeric tea when I can, thanks to my aunt’s advice. Other than that, nothing prescribed.

Doctor: Do you drink alcohol or use any recreational substances?

Patient: Rarely. The odd drink at wrap parties or when someone’s celebrating a promotion, but most of the time, I stay dry—strict rules from both jobs make that easy. Once in a while, I’ll indulge in a Red Horse with the crew after we finish a particularly tough shoot, but it’s not a habit.

Doctor: Any recent medical tests or annual check-ups?

Patient: Just last month, actually. I had a pretty thorough physical during my yearly assessment—it’s mandatory for my other gig. Lots of paperwork, vision and hearing checks, even got weighed in with the group. Docs said everything was fine, but I didn’t mention this cough.

Doctor: Were there any abnormalities in those tests? Cholesterol, blood pressure, glucose?

Patient: Nothing flagged. Blood pressure ticked up a bit, probably because I was running late, but no one seemed worried. I passed the run and strength test, so I guess I still have a little left in the tank.

Doctor: That’s excellent. Let’s talk about mental health. You’ve got a lot on your plate—how are you feeling emotionally?

Patient: It gets overwhelming, Doc. Some days I feel like I’m living out of my duffel, juggling scripts, call sheets, deployment schedules, and then there are calls home. I try to stay upbeat—got to keep morale high for both my crews—but the pressure can brew some anxiety.

Doctor: Do you find yourself ever feeling hopeless or losing interest in your usual hobbies?

Patient: Not hopeless. Honestly, when I get to watch a cut come together or see my squad succeed, I get this rush. It’s just the downtime that makes me restless. Like, I’ll start organizing my old collection of movie storyboards from college or try cooking sinigang just to feel grounded.

Doctor: Do you have anyone to talk to when it gets too much?

Patient: I’ve got a good network, thankfully. A few friends from my ROTC days check in, and my cousins have this group chat that never sleeps. Sometimes we talk about old times, sometimes about the latest action films—one of them even got a cameo on “Fresh Off the Boat.” Makes me smile.

Doctor: That’s wonderful, having that support. Has your mood ever interfered with your performance at work or with your duties elsewhere?

Patient: If anything, I push myself harder so it doesn’t. But there are days when the exhaustion hits and it’s easy to snap at someone for being late or missing a cue. I always apologize after—it’s not how I like to lead, whether it’s on set or with my team.

Doctor: Have you considered speaking with a counselor?

Patient: There’s a counselor we’re allowed to see through our rotation—it’s encouraged, actually. Haven’t taken advantage yet, but a buddy of mine says it helps. I’ll think about it, if things get heavier.

Doctor: That’s a good option to have. You’re juggling a lot, and it’s good to seek support before things build up. Are you currently concerned about anything specific—health, work, home life?

Patient: The main concern is just not dropping the ball. My unit expects a lot, and the folks funding our project don’t tolerate delays. Add in making time to call my lola back home, and it’s a balancing act.

Doctor: You mentioned your lola—do you keep in touch regularly?

Patient: I try, as much as the time difference allows. She’s back in the Philippines, so I’m always recalculating when’s a good time to call. She’s big on sharing family stories—like how she watched her youngest cross a huge ocean so many years ago, taking pride in every milestone her grandkids reach over here.

Doctor: That sounds really meaningful. Do you visit back there often?

Patient: Not as often as I’d like, but every few years I make the trip. The last time, it was for a cousin’s wedding—lots of lechon, karaoke, old photo albums. Seeing the old school where my parents met was something special. I always bring back pasalubong for everyone—it’s expected.

Doctor: It’s wonderful to stay connected to your roots. Is there any history of chronic diseases in your family I should be aware of?

Patient: Dad’s side has some high blood pressure, mom’s side has a bit of diabetes, though everyone’s mostly healthy these days—lots of fish and veggies in their diet. I keep an eye out, just in case.

Doctor: When you travel overseas, do you take any specific health precautions?

Patient: Always check if I need shots—my military doc hounds me about it. I’m the one on set prepared with a first aid kit, partly out of habit from training, partly because you just never know what might happen on location.

Doctor: That’s good practice. Do you handle medical emergencies on set since you’ve had formal training?

Patient: Yeah, sometimes. I’ve patched up more scraped knees and minor burns than I can count, and when someone fainted last month during a long take, I kept things calm until the ambulance arrived. Comes with the territory, I suppose.

Doctor: Sounds like you handle stress well in the moment. Does your work have regular health and safety briefings?

Patient: Absolutely. We start every shoot day with a rundown. I even lead a few; my experience sort of makes it my ‘other hat’ besides organizing scripts and calling shots.

Doctor: Are you happy with your current health overall, or are there things you’d like to change in your lifestyle?

Patient: If I could tweak something, it’d be slowing down to have more proper meals and more normal sleep. Maybe more family time—my dad always says “don’t forget where you started” whenever I mention another late night at the lot. And someday, I’d love to direct a film back in Manila.

Doctor: Those are great goals. Based on everything you’ve shared, your cough is likely from a combination of exhaustion, exposure, and possibly dry air. I’ll listen to your lungs and check you over, just to be thorough, but I think you’ll be back at full strength with some rest. I’d also encourage those support systems—keep those video calls, stay close with family, and don’t be afraid to see the counselor if you need to.

Patient: Thanks, Doc. I appreciate that. Sometimes it’s easy to forget to ask for help with so much to get done, but I’ll take your advice. I know my squad and my crew both count on me, but I know when to listen to the person in charge—and today, that’s you.

Doctor: Thank you! You’re doing a lot, and you have every reason to be proud. Let’s get you checked, and if everything’s clear, I’ll write up some recommendations for managing your cough and improving sleep. Feel free to reach out if anything gets worse.

Patient: Will do. And if you ever need someone to yell “action” for a health video, you know who to call.

Doctor: I might take you up on that offer! Let’s take a listen to those lungs.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-87 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, Doctor. Thanks for fitting me in. I know it’s been a bit since I was last here for a check-up.

Doctor: Good morning! It’s good to see you again. No worries about the time—it’s important to stay on top of your health. How have you been feeling lately?

Patient: I’ve been alright, mostly. Been a little more stressed than usual, with everything going on at work and at the front desk. I think everyone expects me to have all the answers, you know? Phones ringing nonstop, people coming in, trying to keep info straight between departments and visitors—it gets a bit much some days.

Doctor: That does sound overwhelming. It’s easy for stress to creep up in that kind of environment. Do you feel it’s affecting your physical health at all? Any trouble sleeping, headaches, or other symptoms?

Patient: The sleep hasn’t been great, honestly. Hard to shut off my mind when I get home, especially after a day where I’m juggling, say, three calls at once while trying to sign in a FedEx delivery and someone’s behind me with a question about an appointment. By the time I’m on my commute home, I can’t stop thinking about all the things I might have missed or messed up.

Doctor: That constant mental load can definitely take a toll. Have you noticed any other issues? For example, changes in appetite, mood, or energy levels?

Patient: Appetite’s fine, I guess—maybe I graze a bit more than I should. Mostly pretzels from the vending machine or the hard candies we keep at the desk. My mood swings a bit depending on the day, but no huge changes. As for energy, I still get up early and manage the morning rush, but by noon, I feel like I need a nap. I push through since there’s always people coming in and asking for info, but it’s not as easy as when I started the job.

Doctor: That’s understandable. You’ve been manning the reception for a while, right? How long have you been at that position?

Patient: It’ll be twelve years this October. I started back when the office was using those old logbooks for everyone signing in—now it’s all tablets. It’s funny, sometimes I’m the one showing our younger clerks how to get back into the software if they get locked out.

Doctor: Twelve years is impressive! You must know the ins and outs of that office. Do you feel recognized for your experience and all the multitasking you do?

Patient: Most of the team is great about it, though sometimes higher-ups don’t really see how many spinning plates we’ve got at the front. Had to put together some guides for the newer hires last quarter, since our process changes so much. Guess I enjoy organizing things and being the go-to person for weird info, so it fits—I’ve always liked tying up loose ends, even back in my college days.

Doctor: That organizing streak goes all the way back, huh? Did you study something related to administration or management?

Patient: I did, actually. I went to school up the road not far from the Inner Harbor—majored in communications. Four-year college, lots of group projects and presentations. Back then, I thought I’d end up more behind the scenes, not right up front, but I do like chatting with visitors. Dealing with logistics came in handy in school and at work.

Doctor: Having those communication skills must make things smoother. Do you ever feel the urge to go back for more schooling, or are you happy with where you landed?

Patient: Sometimes I think about it, especially when I’m training the new folks. But honestly, after four years of tuition and all those term papers, I’m good for now. Plus, our office always sends us to workshops or webinars, so I feel like I keep my skills fresh that way. I still keep my diploma on the hallway shelf at home, a little nod to the effort I put in, you know?

Doctor: Absolutely. It’s good to appreciate your accomplishments. Can I ask—has your family background influenced your career path or your approach to the job?

Patient: For sure. My folks both worked steady jobs, always taught me to be dependable and work hard. Never missed a day at school unless I was really sick. Grew up nearby—never really pictured myself living anywhere too far from where I started. My whole extended family is in this part of the East Coast.

Doctor: That hometown connection is valuable. I think you mentioned before you’re living not too far from the Chesapeake, right?

Patient: Yeah, right outside Baltimore. If I leave for work before 7, I miss most of the traffic hugging the beltway. It’s gotten more congested lately, but I still prefer the suburbs to the city. I can be at Camden Yards in less than half an hour if the Orioles are playing a weeknight game and the weather’s nice.

Doctor: That’s convenient—I imagine you catch a few games when you can. So your commute isn’t too bad then?

Patient: Not really, though last winter we had a freak early morning snow—I ended up stuck on 95 for two hours. But honestly, I’m glad not to deal with the DC Metro or parkway traffic. Maryland’s home for me. I’ve always felt settled here—between weekends walking around the harbor or heading east for crabs in the summer, it’s hard to imagine living elsewhere. Plus, when graduation rolled around back in the day, all my family could attend without any crazy flights. Local pride, I guess.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re part of the community in every sense. And it seems your role at work sets you up as a familiar face for a lot of people—especially with that long tenure. Do you feel supported by your colleagues with your recent stress?

Patient: For the most part, yes. There’s a few who’ve been around nearly as long as I have, and we commiserate over coffee in the morning. Sometimes the younger ones see me as the office encyclopedia—“Ask Janice, she’ll know.” It’s flattering, but also adds pressure because I don’t want to let anyone down. Some days, I leave the desk for my lunch and end up answering questions by the vending machine anyway.

Doctor: It’s tough being the person everyone counts on. Since you said you’re having trouble winding down at night, have you tried anything to relax before bed? Meditation, or perhaps a soothing routine?

Patient: I started listening to podcasts—oldies trivia ones. I figure, if I can answer what album topped the charts when I was born, my brain might tire out. I’m not quite old enough for disco, but every time someone mentions Beatlemania or bell bottoms, it’s close to my era. My birthday falls on the same day Iron Man debuted in Marvel Comics—kind of a funny coincidence, right?

Doctor: That is a fun bit of trivia! So you draw some relaxation from nostalgia and music. In terms of your stress management at work, have you had a chance to delegate, or take any days off for yourself?

Patient: I took an extra long weekend last October, right around when the trees started turning. I try to save up leave so I can have at least a day off when my birthday comes every fall. With the new fiscal year starting every October, sometimes it’s tricky to get that time, but I make it a tradition. I turned the big 5-5 last year, so I told myself, “If you’ve been here over a decade and you’re eligible for AARP mailers, you get your birthday off.”

Doctor: That’s an excellent attitude! Fifty-five is a milestone. So your birthday is right as autumn really sets in?

Patient: Exactly. It’s after the summer has wrapped up, but before the holiday rush begins—just when pumpkin patches and apple festivals pop up around here. This past birthday, I treated myself to a small get-together with a few friends after work. It’s nice to have a break before flu season picks up.

Doctor: Sounds like you’ve got those seasons down to a science. You mentioned you sometimes train new employees—do you find mentoring others rewarding, or is it just one more thing on your plate?

Patient: Both, honestly. I get satisfaction from seeing someone grow into the job, but sometimes I wonder if I could use a mentor myself for navigating the mountain of calls and forms. I end up being a sounding board for all sorts of office drama—everything from password resets to “My lunch is missing from the fridge.” It’s all in a day’s work, though. Plus, it keeps me on my toes.

Doctor: I can see how the emotional aspect is just as draining as the multitasking. Have you found time to engage in activities outside of work that help you distress? Maybe something social, or just for yourself?

Patient: I started going to trivia nights at a local bar in Towson with some friends from college. We try to go every few months, and I’m the default team captain since someone needs to keep track of the score sheets and hand out assigned categories. Growing up in a household that valued education, I feel like I’m still putting all those group projects from university to use, just in a more relaxed way. It’s fun, especially when there’s a category about Maryland history—I usually ace those.

Doctor: That’s great! And having a connection to your college friends adds to the sense of belonging. Let’s circle back to your health: aside from sleep issues, are there any ongoing conditions we should check today? Heart, blood pressure, or anything related to your family medical history?

Patient: Dad had high blood pressure later in life, so I try to keep an eye on mine. Haven’t noticed anything out of the ordinary, but I’ve been a bit more aware since hitting fifty-five. I had a routine panel done at work six months ago—everything looked fine, but happy to do another. Mom always insisted I see a doctor in the fall and spring. Just trying to keep up the tradition.

Doctor: We can definitely update those labs and check your blood pressure today. Given your busy workday at the reception, do you get much exercise?

Patient: More than you’d think. I’m walking back and forth between the lobby, breakroom, and filing cabinets half the day. Plus, on weekends, my neighbor and I do a loop around the local park. Some days, that’s the only time I get away from being the answer-person for a while.

Doctor: Exercise and some fresh air—a good combination. One last question: have you had all your recommended screenings? Colonoscopy, mammogram, vaccinations?

Patient: Yep, I’m up to date. I’m pretty methodical about keeping tabs—my reminder file is color-coded, same as my incoming delivery log at work. The team at the health center here makes it easy, and my insurance through work covers most of it. I even convinced two coworkers to schedule their screenings after I did. I guess that’s my inner administrator coming out again.

Doctor: That’s excellent—being proactive is key. Are there any other health concerns or questions you have for today?

Patient: Nothing specific, just want to make sure I’m on track. I’ve always been one to keep things in order, whether it’s an appointment reminder or a visitor sign-in sheet. I figure, staying organized with my health is just as important.

Doctor: That’s a great approach. We’ll check your vitals and order your routine labs today. Try to carve out time for yourself and keep up with the relaxing activities. And don’t hesitate to ask for support—at work or here. We’re here for you.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. I appreciate it. I’ll keep the puzzles and oldies music going for bedtime and take that birthday day off again this fall. Maybe next time I’ll bring a trivia question to stump you.

Doctor: I’d look forward to it! Take care, and see you soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_82 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Fire protection

Fire protection is the study and practice of mitigating the unwanted effects of potentially destructive fires. It involves the study of the behaviour, compartmentalisation, suppression and investigation of fire and its related emergencies, as well as the research and development, production, testing and application of mitigating systems. In structures, be they land-based, offshore or even ships, the owners and operators are responsible to maintain their facilities in accordance with a design-basis that is rooted in laws, including the local building code and fire code, which are enforced by the authority having jurisdiction.

Buildings must be constructed in accordance with the version of the building code that is in effect when an application for a building permit is made. Building inspectors check on compliance of a building under construction with the building code. Once construction is complete, a building must be maintained in accordance with the current fire code, which is enforced by the fire prevention officers of a local fire department. In the event of fire emergencies, Firefighters, fire investigators, and other fire prevention personnel are called to mitigate, investigate and learn from the damage of a fire. Lessons learned from fires are applied to the authoring of both building codes and fire codes.

Classifying fires

When deciding on what fire protection is appropriate for any given situation, it is important to assess the types of fire hazards that may be faced.

Some jurisdictions operate systems of classifying fires using code letters. Whilst these may agree on some classifications, they also vary. Below is a table showing the standard operated in Europe and Australia against the system used in the United States.

1 Technically there is no such thing as a "Class E" fire, as electricity itself does not burn. However, it is considered a dangerous and very deadly complication to a fire, therefore using the incorrect extinguishing method can result in serious injury or death. Class E, however generally refers to fires involving electricity, therefore a bracketed E, "(E)" denoted on various types of extinguishers.

Fires are sometimes categorized as "one alarm", "two alarm", "three alarm" (or higher) fires. There is no standard definition for what this means quantifiably, though it always refers to the level response by the local authorities. In some cities, the numeric rating refers to the number of fire stations that have been summoned to the fire. In others, the number counts the number of "dispatches" for additional personnel and equipment.

Components

Fire protection in land-based buildings, offshore construction or on board ships is typically achieved via all of the following:
 Passive fire protection - the installation of firewalls and fire rated floor assemblies to form fire compartments intended to limit the spread of fire, high temperatures, and smoke.
 Active fire protection - manual and automatic detection and suppression of fires, such as fire sprinkler systems and (fire alarm) systems. 
 Education - the provision of information regarding passive and active fire protection systems to building owners, operators, occupants, and emergency personnel so that they have a working understanding of the intent of these systems and how they perform in the fire safety plan.

Balanced approach
Passive fire protection (PFP) in the form of compartmentalisation was developed prior to the invention of or widespread use of active fire protection (AFP), mainly in the form of automatic fire sprinkler systems. During this time, PFP was the dominant mode of protection provided in facility designs. With the widespread installation of fire sprinklers in the past 50 years, the reliance on PFP as the only approach was reduced.

Building operation in conformance with design
Fire protection within a structure relies on all of its components. The building is designed in compliance with the local building code and fire code by...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-26 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there! It's been a hectic start to my week at the office, so I'm glad to have a chat and decompress for a few minutes. By the way, before we get started, can you help with some ideas for creative ways to engage new clients? As someone who's in the S&R game—think services, not retail, mostly repping offerings to businesses—it feels like everything’s gotten a bit stale.

Chatbot: Hello! I’d be happy to help brainstorm some fresh approaches. So you’re a rep for business-oriented services? Do you typically do outreach in-person, over the phone, or online?

Person: Honestly, it's a mix. I’m mostly on the go, dropping in on client sites or hopping on calls when I’m back at my company’s HQ—we’re based in the Twin Cities, in MN, if that helps for context. Face-to-face has always worked well here in the land of ten thousand lakes, but lately, everyone’s so busy and stuck in screens. Thought maybe a more personalized digital touch would stand out.

Chatbot: Absolutely, especially with so much noise online these days. What’s your typical client profile—local businesses, or do you reach out to folks further afield?

Person: Good question. My territory covers the upper Midwest, so a lot of clients are right here in minny, but some are across the border in Wisconsin or the Dakotas. I try to tie in local flavor—sometimes I’ll reference something seasonally Minnesotan, like the spring melt or, you know, that first day you can wear short sleeves after a long winter. Feels more genuine that way.

Chatbot: That’s a great approach! Local touchpoints can really help build rapport. As for digital engagement, how about short, personalized video intros? You could record something referencing local events or news—maybe mentioning the ice-out on a nearby lake or an upcoming festival. People love feeling seen and understood.

Person: I love that. Actually, I just had my birthday a few weeks back—April 6, to be exact—and I did a LinkedIn post tying it to spring renewal in MN. Got way more engagement than usual. Maybe weaving that kind of personal stuff into my client intros wouldn’t hurt.

Chatbot: That’s an excellent idea! Personal milestones and stories can humanize your communication and make prospects feel more connected. Do you usually handle large accounts, or is it more about volume with lots of small businesses?

Person: It’s a mix. My official title is something like “Sr. Services Solutions Rep” (the HR folks love their titles, ha). Technically, I’m full-time on payroll and definitely not moonlighting—this is my main gig. Lately, I’m getting more midsize company leads, so the relationship piece really matters.

Chatbot: Given your focus, you might consider hosting small virtual Q&A sessions on topics relevant to your clients. Position yourself as a helpful resource without always making a sales pitch. Sometimes service reps who provide genuine value upfront stand out from the crowd.

Person: Oh, that’s a solid call. And yeah, my job’s pretty much talking to people all day, solving their business headaches (sometimes with a smile they can hear through the phone), so I think that could work well. Little bit about me—people always tell me my name is more Irish than most folks you meet in Minneapolis. S, u, l, l, i, v, a, n is the last name, and it comes up EVERY time I meet someone new.

Chatbot: That’s a great icebreaker! Names can offer instant connection points. Maybe you could use that as a story in your next email blast—sharing how even your own name has a story behind it, making it relatable for your audience.

Person: Hah, exactly. And maybe I'll mention how people usually ask me if I prefer Annie or Anna as a nickname, which is funny because no one’s really called me anything but Anna S. Just out of curiosity, is there a way to structure subject lines or opener messages so I don’t sound spammy? I want folks to know I’m not just cold pitching—the whole “sales” image can be tough for us reps-for-hire in services.

Chatbot: You could try leading with questions or references specific to their industry, especially local news, partnerships, or even weather. Instead of “Let’s Connect,” you could try “Quick Thought from a Fellow Twin Cities Resident,” or “Spring Update from Your Neighborhood Service Rep.” This grounds your outreach and shows awareness.

Person: Those are clever. Helps that I've lived here pretty much forever—I’m a lifer, born up here in the States, and even my folks are originally from the Midwest, so deffo not new to the scene. Maybe I could say something like, “As someone who’s been through their fair share of bad winters, I get how tough it is to plan in advance around here”?

Chatbot: I love it! That authenticity comes through, and it really sets you apart from generic outreach. How do you keep yourself motivated in your role? Sales—especially relationship-building in service sectors—can be high-pressure.

Person: I honestly just thrive on meeting people where they’re at. Plus, being a ’94 baby means I’ve seen how business has changed—grew up with dial-up, and now everything’s remote or mobile. Keeps me on my toes. To stay motivated during long weeks, I usually treat myself to a coffee run or a walk around one of the lakes after closing a deal. (Shout-out to anyone else whose b-day falls in early April—you know spring is THE time to reset!)

Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Seasonal changes and personal milestones can provide natural rhythms for goal-setting and reflection. Do you have any longer-term plans or career goals you’re working towards?

Person: Still happy in my cubicle for now, but I’m always curious about leadership—maybe managing a team of fellow reps at some point. Lotta respect for those who make it to that step while still keeping up the day-to-day grind. Anyway, this was super helpful. Thanks for the inspiration, chatbot! (By the way, if you ever need tips from someone in services sales, just hit up Anna Sullivan.)

Chatbot: Thank you for chatting, Anna! Always here to brainstorm or lend a virtual ear. Best of luck with all your client outreach—and happy belated birthday again!

Person: Appreciate it! Time to get back to the phone lines before the next snow squall hits, haha. Catch you later!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_295 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# State management

State management refers to the management of the state of one or more user interface controls such as text fields, submit buttons, radio buttons, etc. in a graphical user interface. In this user interface programming technique, the state of one UI control depends on the state of other UI controls. For example, a state-managed UI control such as a button will be in the enabled state when input fields have valid input values, and the button will be in the disabled state when the input fields are empty or have invalid values. As applications grow, this can end up becoming one of the most complex development problems.

This is especially the case when the state of any particular message or form on the page depends on factors outside of the current page, or available throughout several pages. For example, consider a user who is logged in and sees the 'welcome' message on their first visit to any page, but not on subsequent page visits. Does each page manage the state of the user being logged in? That would create too much copy pasting and duplication of code. Instead, you can use a state management pattern for handling messages (this may also include handling error messages and informative messages, along with the described welcome message) and then call this to receive a message as it becomes available.

Examples of state management libraries include Pinia as a state management library for the Vue.js JavaScript framework. The Angular framework includes its own library using  Observables called RxJS and Redux is a general-purpose state management library that can be used with any of the above frameworks or other view libraries, but is very commonly used with the React library. As the documentation in Redux alludes, many of these state management libraries are lightweight and can be replaced by each other. It's also possible to roll your own based on a publish–subscribe pattern where your interface components (like form fields, buttons, and messages) listen to a centralized data store in your application for new changes.

See also
 Data binding
 Observer pattern

References

User interfaces
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-71 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi! Thanks for logging in for our parent-teacher check-in. I know it’s a little unusual since my parent is here too, but I wanted to join since I’m starting daycare next week!  

Other: Absolutely! It’s great having you both. Having even our tiniest learners present can be really helpful. Are you excited to meet the other kids and try some new activities?

Target: Yeah! Mama said there will be lots of crayons and blocks. At home, I draw all the time. I even drew a picture of the big boat we saw last summer by the big lake.

Other: That sounds wonderful! Was that Lake Michigan, by any chance? Your mama mentioned you’re local.

Target: Mhm, it’s the really, really big one. Sometimes we get cheese curds after we go to see the boats. Daddy says they’re a local treat!

Other: Yes, cheese curds and lots of green and gold around here—are you a Packers fan in your family?

Target: My daddy wears a big yellow hat on game days! I jump on the couch and shout “Go Pack Go!” with him. We even have a cheese hat somewhere.

Other: You’ll fit in here just fine! So, I have a few questions about your favorite things. You mentioned coloring. Are there any books or shows you really like?

Target: I like trucks and animals. My favorite book has a big red barn. And birthday books! I had my birthday party when the lilac bushes were blooming and everyone wore sunglasses because the sun was out so long that day.

Other: That’s a lovely memory! The lilacs usually bloom at the end of May around here. So your birthday was just recently?

Target: Yep! Mama had a big number "1...2" balloon, but she said last year I was still “one.” Now my balloons had a “2” and a “3.”

Other: So you just turned three last month! That’s an exciting age. And you said your birthday was when the lilacs bloom and the sun’s out late—that sounds like late May.

Target: Uh-huh! We had cupcakes with purple icing because Mama said that matches the flowers outside the window. And sometimes my party is before the pools open, but after we hear the ice cream truck for the first time.

Other: Oh, I bet that was such fun! Three is a big milestone—some of our classroom activities are just right for you now. 

Target: I like puzzles! I can’t do the big ones yet, but I try. My friend Sam came to my birthday. He was born after me, so he had to have help blowing out my candles.

Other: It’s nice you have friends close in age. Is Sam coming to daycare too?

Target: Yes! Our moms met in swim class. They laugh about how we both like to splash but not go underwater yet.

Other: Makes sense. That’s part of why I like the little ones' swim classes at our community center—start them young! Can you tell me more about your day at home?

Target: Sometimes Daddy makes pancakes with blueberries, and we eat together. Mama takes me to the park when she isn’t working. We see lots of people walking their dogs. My gramma says we can see Canada across the lake, but I just see ducks.

Other: That’s sweet. It’s nice you spend time with both parents. I believe your registration noted two guardians—do you like spending time with both Mama and Daddy?

Target: Yes! When Daddy fixes things, I play with screws. Mama reads stories. They both tuck me in every night. On weekends, we go to the farmers’ market and pick apples or look for honey.

Other: You must have a great family routine. And it sounds like you get to spend quality time with both of them, which is lovely! Tell me, do you have any special family celebrations?

Target: Mama and Daddy had a dancing day with everyone before I was born. There was cake and singing. Sometimes they show me pictures of them with fancy clothes and big smiles. I clap when I see those.

Other: Oh, that sounds like their wedding! Big celebrations are so important for families to remember. You are lucky to have those memories shared with you.

Target: I like the picture where Mama is in a dress like a cloud, and Daddy’s shoes are shiny. I wear a bow tie on holidays, like him.

Other: You’ll be the best-dressed kid at daycare, I suspect! Now, just a few more things. I noticed your age when we went over your paperwork earlier, but there are always new milestones. Are you learning to count or sing?

Target: I can sing my ABCs! And I count my cars when I put them in a row. Sometimes I forget after nine. I can’t write my name yet. Mama says maybe soon.

Other: No rush! You’re right at the beginning of learning all those things. No worries about reading or writing—some kids learn those a bit later, and everyone goes at their own pace.

Target: I don’t get homework! I just make pictures for the fridge, and sometimes I bring home handprints with paint.

Other: That’s perfect. At this stage, making art and exploring is the most important thing.

Target: My cousin is in the big kids’ school. She brings home math homework. I just get to play.

Other: You’re doing exactly what you should be! For now, exploration is the best learning. You’ll have homework soon enough one day.

Target: This summer, I will go visit Grampa up north. He lives where the snow is really deep in winter. Mama said it’s not far, just a drive from home.

Other: I’m glad you get to travel around the state! Going up north is almost a rite of passage here. Do you like the snow, or are you more of a summer person?

Target: I like snow! We build snowmen in the backyard, and Daddy pushes me on the sled. But I like swimming too. In winter, Daddy shovels while I watch from the window.

Other: Ah, the joys of a Wisconsin winter! You’re at the best age to enjoy it all. Your family sounds really close-knit—lots of traditions and togetherness.

Target: Mama says our family lives in different places too. Gramma lives far away, but she sends me cards. One time she mailed a postcard with a picture of cows and red barns.

Other: Let me guess, did the postcard say “Greetings from America’s Dairyland”?

Target: Yes! With cows and cheese. Gramma says Wisconsin is famous for that. She also jokes that our state is shaped like her mitten.

Other: You really are a Wisconsinite! Did you get to see any cows in person yet?

Target: Only at the fair last summer. I was too little to pet them, but I waved. I like watching the tractors, too!

Other: The county fair is a blast. Maybe this year you’ll be tall enough for the rides. Do you have a favorite ride yet?

Target: I tried the little airplane, but I wanted to ride the ferris wheel. Maybe when I’m bigger.

Other: That’ll be fun! The ferris wheel is a classic. Does your family travel outside of the state, or mostly stay local?

Target: Mama says when I’m bigger we can fly on a big airplane. Right now, we just drive to see family. One time, we went to a place where there was a big green statue and a lot of boats.

Other: Did you visit somewhere on the lakeshore, or maybe Door County?

Target: Door County! We ate cherry pie and slept in a house with creaky floors.

Other: That’s such a beautiful spot. I go there every fall. Sounds like you’ve already experienced lots of what our state has to offer. 

Target: Mama says we live in a place with four seasons, so we have to have boots and sandals and snow gear.

Other: It’s definitely true! Let’s talk a little more about what you’ll do here at daycare. We have storytime every morning, and soon you’ll get to lead the weather chart. Do you like talking about the weather?

Target: Yes, I look out the window with Daddy and say “cloudy” or “sunny.” When it rains hard, I get to splash in puddles if I wear my yellow boots.

Other: You’ll be our little meteorologist! Now, for the sake of the records, is this your very first time in a school setting?

Target: Uh-huh, I never went to big kid school before. Sam went to a baby class, but I always stayed home with Mama or Daddy.

Other: That’s totally fine—many children your age are just entering their first group learning experience.

Target: Mama said I’m not big enough to go to her school yet. She says I can start real classes when I am much bigger.

Other: That’s the right approach. Your learning is just beginning, so this is all about fun! Are there things you’re excited or nervous about with daycare starting?

Target: I want to play with the big blocks and meet new friends. But sometimes I feel shy with new people. Mama says I can bring my bunny from home.

Other: Of course! Having something comforting from home is a great idea. It’ll help you to feel safe on your first day. 

Target: Sometimes I hide behind Mama’s legs when we go somewhere new. But then if someone smiles at me, I say hi.

Other: Perfectly normal. We’re used to helping new friends feel welcome. We’ll help you get comfortable in the classroom. And if you want to draw a picture or read quietly, that’s always an option.

Target: I like morning songs. At home, Mama puts on music and we dance in the kitchen.

Other: We do circle time with music every day. You’ll love jumping and singing with the class.

Target: I hope so! At my birthday party, everyone sang happy birthday to me, and we had strawberry lemonade. It was the best.

Other: Birthdays are magical at your age! When is your next birthday? Are you already thinking about what kind of party you want?

Target: My birthday comes when all the flowers come out, almost at the very, very end of spring but not quite summer yet. Mama says sometimes it’s on the last Friday of the month, sometimes it’s not.

Other: That’s a special time of year. I bet you’ll get to have an outdoor party again next year with all your friends from daycare.

Target: I want to have balloons again, and maybe bubbles. Last year, Mama laughed because I got frosting all over my nose.

Other: That’s what birthdays are all about! You’ll have so many new friends to celebrate with. Now, just to circle back, your family mentioned some fun traditions—do you ever help with any special meals or baking at home?

Target: I help stir when we make pumpkin bread. And on weekends, we eat pancakes together. Mama and Daddy always sit with me at the table and we all talk.

Other: Family mealtime is so important. It’s wonderful you all eat together. Your family must be very close.

Target: They say we’re a team! Mama calls us “her crew.” Every night, Daddy reads a story and they tuck me in together.

Other: I bet you feel really safe and loved. You’re going to have a great time here and make lots of new friends. Are you ready for your first big adventure in daycare?

Target: Yes, but can I bring my bunny and my crayons at first?

Other: Absolutely. We want you to feel at home here. And we’ll make sure you get to share your love of drawing and stories with everyone.

Target: Okay! I will show you all my favorite colors and maybe draw you a picture of the lake.

Other: I’d love that very much. Looking forward to welcoming you next week, with all your curiosity and creativity!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-46 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hi Doctor, thanks for fitting me in today. I wanted to talk over a couple of things that have been bothering me lately.

Doctor: Of course, I’m glad to see you. What’s going on?

Patient: Well, I’ve noticed that my hands have been getting sore and a bit stiff, especially after a day working with the crops. I mostly handle sorting veggies and fruits, and lately it’s just felt worse.

Doctor: How long has that been happening? Has there been any swelling or redness?

Patient: It’s been a few weeks, on and off. No real swelling, just the aching and maybe a little puffy here and there. Back when I was more involved with fishing, my hands would get tired, but this is new. I wonder if it’s all the sorting I do—grading and picking through produce isn’t easy on the joints.

Doctor: Right, grading and sorting agricultural products can definitely be hard on your hands. Are you still spending a lot of time in the fields or has your role changed?

Patient: Well, it’s a bit different now. I used to do a lot more fishing and general farm work, but these days it’s mostly just sorting, since I’m not punching a clock anywhere anymore. I kind of stepped back from the whole workforce life, so I’m not really employed, just helping out now and then as needed.

Doctor: Got it. So you’re spending more time at home? Has that change been tough for you in any way?

Patient: Some days yes, some days no. There’s been a lot of changes the past year. My partner and I split up a while back, so I’m figuring out what things look like just being on my own for now. It’s a big transition, honestly.

Doctor: I’m sorry to hear that. That can definitely create a lot of emotional stress, especially with life changes and routines getting shaken up. How are you holding up with everything?

Patient: Thank you. I guess I’m managing. Some days are better than others. I lean on my sister and our community, which helps. Being Cherokee, family is important, and we look out for each other, you know?

Doctor: Absolutely, having family support is crucial. If you feel like you’d benefit from any counseling or talking to someone, let me know. Sometimes, having someone outside the family helps too.

Patient: I’ll think about it. I know my aunt always says that too. For now, I mostly keep my mind busy with little chores and making sure the produce is all sorted well for the folks in town.

Doctor: When you mention the aches in your hands, is there any numbness or tingling? Or is it just soreness after sorting and grading produce?

Patient: Mostly just the soreness. By the end of the day, especially when I’m sorting apples and potatoes, my knuckles just feel all creaky. Since I don’t have a boss to ask for lighter tasks, I do what I can and rest plenty.

Doctor: Have you tried any home remedies? Heat, ice, or maybe anti-inflammatories?

Patient: A bit of heat helps. I soak my hands in warm water in the evenings. I haven’t taken anything yet, but if you think an over-the-counter pill is okay, I might try that.

Doctor: Ibuprofen or naproxen could help. Try it when you know you’ll be especially busy. I also recommend gentle hand exercises and stretches—these can really support hand function, especially in people with your background in farming and product sorting.

Patient: I’ll give that a try. Can I ask, should I be worried about arthritis? I know my grandmother had issues.

Doctor: That’s a fair question. With your ongoing work in ag and sorting, plus a family history, it’s worth monitoring. For now, since it’s minor and there’s no joint swelling, we can just keep an eye on it. If things get worse, we’ll look into lab work and maybe x-rays.

Patient: Makes sense. Oh, and do I need to update my insurance details? I had a new card sent, and I was a bit worried about paying today. My card is four zero two six, two one seven four, five nine six one, five eight six two—I think that’s the new one.

Doctor: Let’s make sure the front desk gets that number. That way we’re set for billing, and you shouldn’t have any trouble.

Patient: Great, I’ll stop by the front desk on the way out. Thanks for reminding me.

Doctor: No problem at all. Now, outside of your hands, how is your general health? Any changes in appetite, weight, or sleep?

Patient: Sleeping’s okay some nights. It’s noisy at my sister’s, but you get used to it. Since I’m not doing as much fieldwork, I try to help wherever I can, but it’s different not having a full-time job or anything.

Doctor: It’s important to find routines that work for you, especially with the big life changes you’ve gone through. Maintaining a sense of community can help too.

Patient: That’s true. My cousin and I try to stick to our old customs—cooking, storytelling, some crafts in the evenings. It keeps me grounded, especially after being on my own since the split.

Doctor: I’m really glad you have those connections. If you ever feel overwhelmed, the door’s always open here. Remember, you can always call if you have new symptoms with your hands or if you’d like more support for your overall wellbeing.

Patient: Thanks, Doctor. I appreciate it. I’ll try the stretches and maybe take some ibuprofen when it’s rough. And I’ll give the front desk my new card number to update the system.

Doctor: Perfect. Take care of yourself, and remember—if anything gets worse, don’t hesitate to call.

Patient: Will do! Thank you for listening and helping out today.

Doctor: You’re always welcome. See you next time.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_170 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Basis set superposition error

In quantum chemistry, calculations using finite  basis sets are susceptible to basis set superposition error (BSSE). As the atoms of interacting molecules (or of different parts of the same molecule - intramolecular BSSE) approach one another, their basis functions overlap.  Each monomer "borrows" functions from other nearby components, effectively increasing its basis set and improving the calculation of derived properties such as energy. If the total energy is minimised as a function of the system geometry, the short-range energies from the mixed basis sets must be compared with the long-range energies from the unmixed sets, and this mismatch introduces an error.  

Other than using infinite basis sets, two methods exist to eliminate the BSSE. In the chemical Hamiltonian approach (CHA), basis set mixing is prevented a priori, by replacing the conventional Hamiltonian with one in which all the projector-containing terms that would allow mixing have been removed.  In the counterpoise method (CP), the BSSE is calculated by re-performing all the calculations using the mixed basis sets, and the error is then subtracted a posteriori from the uncorrected energy. (The mixed basis sets are realised by introducing "ghost orbitals", basis set functions which have no electrons or protons. It however has been shown that there is an inherent danger in using counterpoise corrected energy surfaces, due to the inconsistent effect of the correction in different areas of the energy surface.) Though conceptually very different, the two methods tend to give similar results. It also has been shown that the error is often larger when using the CP method since the central atoms in the system have much greater freedom to mix with all of the available functions compared to the outer atoms. Whereas in the CHA model, those orbitals have no greater intrinsic freedom and therefore the correction treats all fragments equally. The errors inherent in either BSSE correction disappear more rapidly than the total value of BSSE in larger basis sets.

See also 

 Basis set (chemistry)
 Quantum chemistry
 Quantum chemistry computer programs

References

Quantum chemistry
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_106 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Thin-film bulk acoustic resonator

A thin-film bulk acoustic resonator (FBAR or TFBAR) is a device consisting of a piezoelectric material manufactured by thin film methods between two conductive – typically metallic – electrodes and acoustically isolated from the surrounding medium. The operation is based on the piezoelectricity of the piezolayer between the electrodes.
 FBAR devices using piezoelectric films with thicknesses ranging from several micrometres down to tenths of micrometres resonate in the frequency range of 100 MHz to 20 GHz. FBAR or TFBAR resonators fall in the category of bulk acoustic resonators (BAW) and piezoelectric resonators and they are used in applications where high frequency, small size and weight is needed.

Piezoelectricity in thin films
The crystallographic orientation of a thin film depends on the piezomaterial selected and many other items like the surface on which the film is grown and various manufacturing - thin film growth - conditions (temperatures selected, pressure, gases used, vacuum conditions etc.).

Any material like lead zirconate titanate (PZT) or barium strontium titanate (BST) from the list of piezoelectric materials could act as an active material in an FBAR. However two compound materials aluminium nitride (AlN) and zinc oxide (ZnO) are the two most studied piezoelectric materials manufactured for high frequency FBAR realisations. This is due to the fact that the properties like stoichiometry of two compound materials can be easier to control compared to three compound materials manufactured by thin film methods. For example it is known that thin film ZnO with C axis of the crystal structure (crystalline Z axis) normal to the substrate surface excites  longitudinal (L) waves. Shear (transverse) (S) waves are excited if C axis of the film crystal structure is 41º tilted. It is also possible – depending on the crystal structure of the film – that both waves (L & S) are excited. Therefore the understanding and control of the crystal structure of the manufactured piezoelectric film is crucial for the operation of the FBAR.

For high frequency purposes like filtering of signals the energy conversion efficiency is the most important item and therefore longitudinal (L) waves are favored and targeted to be used. For sensing and actuation purposes the structural deformation might be more important than energy conversion efficiency and shear-mode wave excitation will be the target of the manufacturing of the piezoelectric film.

Despite the lower electromechanical coupling coefficient compared to zinc oxide, aluminum nitride, with a wider band gap has become the most used material in industrial applications, which require a wide bandwidth in signal processing. Compatibility with the silicon integrated circuit technology has supported AlN in FBAR resonator based products like radio frequency filters, duplexers, RF power amplifier or RF receiver modules.

Thin film piezoelectric sensors may be based on various piezoelectric materials depending on the application, but two compound piezoelectric materials are favored due to simplicity of manufacturing.

Doping or adding new materials like scandium (Sc) are new directions to improve material properties of AlN for FBARs. Research of new electrode materials or alternative materials to aluminium like by replacing one of the metal electrodes with very light materials like graphene for minimising the loading of the resonator has been demonstrated to lead better control of the resonance frequency.

Substrates for FBAR resonators and their applications 

FBAR resonators can be manufactured on ceramic (Al2O3 or alumina), sapphire, glass or silicon substrates. However silicon wafer is the most common substrate due to its scalability towards mass manufacturing and compatibility with various manufacturing steps needed.

During early studies and experimentation phase of thin film resonators in 1967 cadmium sulfide (CdS) was evaporated on a resonant piece of bulk quartz crystal which...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_212 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Pseudis paradoxa

Pseudis paradoxa, known as the paradoxical frog or shrinking frog, is a species of hylid frog from South America. Its name refers to the very large—up to  long—tadpole (the world's longest), which in turn "shrinks" during metamorphosis into an ordinary-sized frog, only about a quarter or third of its former length. Although the recordholder was a tadpole in Amapá that belonged to this species, others in the genus Pseudis also have large tadpoles and ordinary-sized adults.

Distribution and habitat
The species inhabits ponds, lakes, lagoons and similar waters from the Amazon and the Guianas, to Venezuela and Trinidad, with a disjunct distribution in the Magdalena River watershed in Colombia and adjacent far western Venezuela. More southerly populations from the Pantanal region to northeastern Argentina have been recognized as a subspecies, but are now often considered a full species, P. platensis, although the validity of this split is questionable.

Appearance and behavior

The adult frogs of P. paradoxa have a snout–to–vent length of  and are green to brown coloured with dark green, olive or dark brownish stripes or mottling; the pattern and hue varies significantly.

The female of P. paradoxa lay eggs among water plants; the eggs develop into tadpoles. They always reach a large size, but there are noticeable local variations in the final size of the tadpoles, with those in large temporary waters with plenty of food and few aquatic predators growing larger than those in smaller waters with less food or waters with more aquatic predators.

The tadpoles feed mostly on algae. The adult frogs, which are active both day and night and always in or near water, eat insects (such as flies, beetles, true bugs, plantsuckers, butterflies, moths and dragonflies) and other invertebrates (such as crabs), and small frogs. When threatened, the frog uses its strong toes with an extra joint to stir up the muddy bottom and hide. The frog also uses this mechanism to find food on the bottom of lakes and ponds.

Potential use in medicine
In March 2008, scientists working from the Universities of Ulster and United Arab Emirates released findings of a study on pseudin-2, a skin compound which protects the paradoxical frog from infection. This work found that a synthetic version of this compound was able to stimulate the secretion of insulin in pancreatic cells under laboratory conditions without toxicity to the cells. As such, this synthetic medicine could be used in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.

References

External links
 
 

Amphibians of Bolivia
Amphibians of Brazil
Amphibians of Colombia
Amphibians of French Guiana
Amphibians of Guyana
Amphibians of Peru
Amphibians of Suriname
Amphibians of Trinidad and Tobago
Amphibians of Venezuela
Amphibians described in 1758
Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus
paradoxa
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-17 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Morning, doc. Sorry I was a bit late—I got stuck re-typing some letters my boss wanted perfect before lunch.

Doctor: No problem. Glad you could make it. How are you feeling today?

Patient: Been better, honestly. I’m coming in for my regular check-up, but also I’ve been having this weird tightness in my chest every now and then. It’s not sharp or anything, just kind of… like someone’s pressing down, especially after a long day.

Doctor: I see. And how long has this been going on?

Patient: A couple weeks, maybe three? I thought it was just stress at the office at first—you know how those endless filing cabinets and phone calls can be.

Doctor: I hear you. Sounds like your job keeps you on your toes. Has anything changed at work that could be increasing your stress?

Patient: You could say that. My supervisor dumped the whole supply ordering on me. And with half the staff out sick last Friday, I had double the calls to answer. Most days I barely scoot out for lunch, just scarfing down a sandwich at my desk between scheduling meetings for the higher-ups.

Doctor: That does sound stressful. Any changes in your routine outside work? How's your sleep been?

Patient: Sleep’s been all over the place. I set my alarm for 6:30 so I can beat the rush and catch the bus on 8th Avenue, but I’m tossing and turning until 2 AM sometimes. And then there’s the humidity—we had that thunderstorm last night, so the air was thick.

Doctor: Sounds like a typical spring here. Do you mind if I ask—are you still living on the coast?

Patient: Yep, still up in Jacksonville. I can’t imagine moving too far from the beaches—you spend enough years watching thunderstorms roll in with the palm trees swaying and it’s hard to picture living anywhere else. Plus, my nephew always wants to visit for the theme parks and the manatees.

Doctor: Jacksonville is beautiful. Do you find yourself getting outside much these days, or is most of your time spent indoors?

Patient: Not nearly as much as I should. Most days, the furthest I go is the bus stop and back. And then it’s a lot of behind-the-desk stuff—updating calendars, making sure no one double-books the conference room. I wish I was getting my steps in, but it’s hard when you’re the one keeping the office wheels turning.

Doctor: I’m sensing a lot of desk time, which can be tough on the body. Let’s circle back to your chest tightness—do you ever feel it during activity, or just at rest?

Patient: It’s more toward the end of the day. Sometimes after running around the office trying to untangle a mess in the records room, I’ll feel it. Or after I finally get home and flop into the recliner, that’s when I notice the heaviness more.

Doctor: Do you have any family history of heart problems or anything similar?

Patient: Well, my dad did pass away from a heart attack—he was just a few years younger than I am now. My mom’s side runs more toward high blood pressure and diabetes.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing. I think it’d be a good idea to do a physical exam and get some bloodwork. Before we do that, can I ask—do you smoke or drink?

Patient: Quit smoking about 15 years ago, after I realized how bad it was making my morning cough. As for drinking, just an occasional beer with old friends—usually when the Dolphins are playing on TV, to be honest.

Doctor: Good for you on quitting the cigarettes. And the occasional beer is fine as long as it's not excessive. Do you take any medications regularly?

Patient: Just the blood pressure pills—remember you switched me over to a new one last year after I got those dizzy spells? I take it every morning before heading into the office.

Doctor: Yes, I have that in your records. Any side effects with the new medication?

Patient: Not really. Maybe a bit drowsy, especially if I haven’t eaten breakfast. But as soon as I have my coffee and finish typing up the day’s memos, I shake it off.

Doctor: Do you remember the exact name and dose?

Patient: Lisinopril, 20 milligrams, that’s the one. Little pink pill.

Doctor: Perfect. Now about your health habits—do you get a chance to exercise outside work?

Patient: Honestly, my job gets in the way. Eight hours a day at the front desk, and I’m so wiped out after handling endless supply requests or re-scheduling the bigwigs’ flights that I don’t want to do anything but put my feet up. I keep telling myself I’ll join one of those walking groups at the rec center, but haven’t done it yet.

Doctor: Even getting up and moving every hour or so at work can make a difference. Maybe we could figure out a plan that works with your schedule?

Patient: That sounds good. I don’t mind the idea of simple stretches or short walks. Problem is, the breakroom is basically a closet and the hallway is usually packed with delivery guys dropping off toner or envelopes.

Doctor: Understandable. Even parking a few blocks away or walking during your lunch break might help, if it’s possible.

Patient: I’ll think about that. Anything's worth a shot—especially since I’m hitting the big 5-2 this summer. I want to stay in decent shape; my little granddaughter has too much energy for me to keep up as it is.

Doctor: That’s great—so you’ll be celebrating a birthday soon. How do you usually mark the occasion?

Patient: Usually just a barbecue with the family. Sometimes we catch a fireworks show if it lines up close enough—last year, the kids joked that I always get sparklers for my cake because of the timing in early August. It’s funny, everyone treats me to red, white, and blue cupcakes even though the Fourth is a month earlier. My mother used to say she knew I’d be a “firecracker baby” even if I missed Independence Day by a few weeks.

Doctor: Well, I hope you get to enjoy it this year, and hopefully with less stress. You mentioned earlier about not sleeping well—have you always had trouble with that, or is it a recent thing?

Patient: It got worse since the job re-org. I keep replaying office problems in my head. Plus, I never really got the hang of studying back in the day—school was more about making friends than finishing homework. Now every memo I send at work, I double- and triple-check, worried I’ll mess up. Guess old habits stick.

Doctor: Did you ever consider going back to school or doing any further training after you left school?

Patient: You know, I never did. I went straight into work, answering phones as a temp. Back then, I figured I’d go back once I got my bearings, but life just moved on. Some of the folks in my department went back for associate degrees—I'm the only one who slipped into admin work without a diploma. Sometimes I feel out of place at the staff meetings when they talk about college, but I get by on experience.

Doctor: Experience counts for so much, especially in those keep-the-lights-on admin roles. Have you thought about any classes now, even outside work?

Patient: The library near my place runs computer workshops for folks who never got an official certificate, but I haven’t signed up. My supervisor keeps offering to help with tuition if I do, but somehow I keep procrastinating. Guess it’s easier to stick with what I know—managing calendars, prepping letters, designing those birthday cards with clip art. If I had to take a math test now, though, I’d probably run for the hills!

Doctor: I completely understand. Plenty of valued team members never had a chance to finish formal schooling, and administrative work is all about details and reliability. It sounds like you’re the backbone of your office.

Patient: That’s one word for it. I always say: I keep the ship running, even if my desk is hidden behind a mountain of folders and sticky notes.

Doctor: Regarding your office work, do you find staring at screens all day ever affects your eyes or causes headaches?

Patient: Oh, definitely. Most days, by three o’clock my eyes go blurry from typing up another round of minutes while answering call after call. My manager even gave me one of those blue light glasses sets as a thank you, but I keep forgetting to use them.

Doctor: Try to remember to wear them and take screen breaks if you can. Now, going back to your family—do they live nearby?

Patient: Most of them do. My daughter and her son are just across town, and my sister moved down from Georgia years ago to retire near St. Augustine. Family’s always been close—pretty normal for folks around here. Plus, we never miss the summer cookouts or the Christmas boat parade on the river. I grew up with those kind of traditions—you know, local, lots of American flags on porches, everyone grilling together.

Doctor: Sounds lovely. Any international travel coming up, or mostly staying local?

Patient: I envy everyone going abroad, but honestly, I travel about as far as Orlando or Daytona for the occasional training seminar. Never spent much time outside the States—the furthest I’ve gone is up to New York for a conference, but I’m a homegrown Floridian. I’ve never had any hiccups with flying or documentation or anything.

Doctor: Understood. When you mentioned being close to the beach and handling administrative tasks, it reminded me—you ever get much downtime to enjoy the coast, or is it all work and no play?

Patient: I take my grandson to Jacksonville Beach when I can sneak out on a Friday. We try to beat the summer crowds—the sun’s brutal, but nothing like wading in warm Atlantic water. You just have to remember the sunscreen or you wind up cooked like a lobster. These days, I’m more likely to be packing up leftover birthday cupcakes for a beach picnic than surfing, but I’ll take what I can get.

Doctor: That sounds wonderful. Any history of skin issues with all that Florida sun?

Patient: Just the occasional sunburn when I was younger, but nothing bad. My sister gets her mole checked every year, so I probably should too—but with all the paperwork at work, it slips my mind.

Doctor: Well, we can take a look today. Do you have any other concerns you want to discuss while you’re here?

Patient: Actually, yeah. Sometimes my hands go numb after a long day typing at my desk. I joked with the girls that I probably have "secretary’s wrist," but it gets annoying—especially if I have a stack of expense receipts to sort.

Doctor: Carpal tunnel is pretty common with that kind of work. We can do some tests, and maybe get you a wrist brace if needed.

Patient: That’d be helpful. I need these hands in good working order—as much as my family teases me about being old school, someone has to wrangle the office supplies and keep the boss’s calendar from looking like a crazy quilt.

Doctor: I’m glad you brought it up. Before we get started on labs and a physical, just a few more quick questions. Do you have any allergies?

Patient: Just penicillin—found out the hard way when my pediatrician gave it to me for strep as a kid. Broke out in a rash so fast, my mom still tells the story whenever we’re at a family dinner.

Doctor: I’ll make a note of that. Let’s keep you away from penicillins, just in case. Anything else that’s been worrying you?

Patient: I think that covers most of it. Well, except the usual—worrying about mixing up the mailing labels when I’m rushing through a pile of bills. You’d be surprised how stressful it gets making sure the right envelope goes to the right vendor, especially when half the company thinks you’re a magician with the calendar invites.

Doctor: You clearly juggle a lot. I hope you’re giving yourself a little credit for keeping things running smoothly. Let’s run those labs and do an EKG, and in the meantime we’ll start brainstorming how you can sneak in a bit of exercise or stress relief—even if it’s just a few stretches at your desk.

Patient: I appreciate that. Sometimes you forget to take care of yourself when you’re so busy taking care of everyone else—at work and at home. My granddaughter keeps telling me I’m “vintage,” but every now and then I’d like to feel a little less worn out!

Doctor: You still have many good years ahead. Let’s keep you as healthy as possible so you can enjoy them. When we’re done today, I’ll give you a printout of some stretches you can do at your desk. And perhaps you’ll surprise your family at that birthday barbecue this August.

Patient: I’d love that. I can already hear them joking about the “classic” cakes for my “classic” year. Hard to believe I’ve been working since before the internet—and my first office gig, I used a typewriter instead of a laptop. Time sure flies.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing all of this with me—it really helps to get a full picture. Let’s get started with the exam, and I’ll check in about that chest tightness.

Patient: Thanks, doc. I’m ready when you are.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_23 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Binary relation

In mathematics, a binary relation associates elements of one set, called the domain, with elements of another set, called the codomain.  A binary relation over sets  and  is a new set of ordered pairs  consisting of elements  from  and  from . It is a generalization of the more widely understood idea of a unary function. It encodes the common concept of relation: an element  is related to an element , if and only if the pair  belongs to the set of ordered pairs that defines the binary relation. A binary relation is the most studied special case  of an -ary relation over sets , which is a subset of the Cartesian product 

An example of a binary relation is the "divides" relation over the set of prime numbers  and the set of integers , in which each prime  is related to each integer  that is a multiple of , but not to an integer that is not a multiple of . In this relation, for instance, the prime number 2 is related to numbers such as −4, 0, 6, 10, but not to 1 or 9, just as the prime number 3 is related to 0, 6, and 9, but not to 4 or 13.

Binary relations are used in many branches of mathematics to model a wide variety of concepts. These include, among others:
 the "is greater than", "is equal to", and "divides" relations in arithmetic;
 the "is congruent to" relation in geometry;
 the "is adjacent to" relation in graph theory;
 the "is orthogonal to" relation in linear algebra.

A function may be defined as a special kind of binary relation. Binary relations are also heavily used in computer science.

A binary relation over sets  and  is an element of the power set of  Since the latter set is ordered by inclusion (⊆), each relation has a place in the lattice of subsets of  A binary relation is called a homogeneous relation when X = Y. A binary relation is also called a heterogeneous relation when it is not necessary that X = Y.

Since relations are sets, they can be manipulated using set operations, including union, intersection, and complementation, and satisfying the laws of an algebra of sets. Beyond that, operations like the converse of a relation and the composition of relations are available, satisfying the laws of a calculus of relations, for which there are textbooks by Ernst Schröder, Clarence Lewis, and Gunther Schmidt. A deeper analysis of relations involves decomposing them into subsets called , and placing them in a complete lattice.

In some systems of axiomatic set theory, relations are extended to classes, which are generalizations of sets. This extension is needed for, among other things, modeling the concepts of "is an element of" or "is a subset of" in set theory, without running into logical inconsistencies such as Russell's paradox.

The terms , dyadic relation and two-place relation are synonyms for binary relation, though some authors use the term "binary relation" for any subset of a Cartesian product  without reference to  and , and reserve the term "correspondence" for a binary relation with reference to  and .

Definition 
Given sets X and Y, the Cartesian product  is defined as  and its elements are called ordered pairs.

A  R over sets X and Y is a subset of  The set X is called the  or  of R, and the set Y the  or  of R. In order to specify the choices of the sets X and Y, some authors define a  or  as an ordered triple , where G is a subset of  called the  of the binary relation. The statement  reads "x is R-related to y" and is denoted by xRy. The  or  of R is the set of all x such that xRy for at least one y. The codomain of definition, ,  or  of R is the set of all y such that xRy for at least one x. The  of R is the union of its domain of definition and its codomain of definition.

When  a binary relation is called a  (or ). To emphasize the fact that X and Y are allowed to be different, a binary relation is also called a heterogeneous relation.

In a binary relation, the order of the elements is important; if  then yRx can be true or false independently of xRy. For example, 3 divides 9,...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-16 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, thanks for chatting. I had a long shift today, so I’m glad to just relax and talk for a bit.
Chatbot: Happy to be here! What sort of work do you do, if you don’t mind me asking?
Person: It’s a bit of everything, honestly. Most days I help out sorting supplies at a warehouse, but sometimes I get asked to run errands for the crew or take inventory. It’s steady work, keeps my hands busy. Nothing fancy, but I’m content with it.
Chatbot: That sounds like honest work. Do you find it tiring, or do you usually have energy left for hobbies when you get home?
Person: Some days are harder than others. Unpacking those bulk shipments wears me out, especially when you’re on your feet for hours. But I make time for my hobbies whenever I can. I spend evenings working on beadwork—bracelets or tribal patterns I learned from my family. Sometimes we share stories while we do it.
Chatbot: That sounds lovely. Is beadwork something you learned as a child, or did you pick it up later?
Person: I grew up around it. My grandma used to show me these intricate patterns that she said were passed down for generations. She’d tell me about how the colors meant different things for different clans. It’s a big part of who I am to keep those designs alive, you know?
Chatbot: Absolutely, traditions like that help keep communities connected. Do you make things just for yourself, or do you share them with others?
Person: I try to give bracelets and small tokens to family and folks in my community, especially at gatherings. Last summer we had a big get-together in Mescalero, and everyone was trading jewelry, crafts, and food. It’s important for me to contribute—even if I’m not an expert. That’s the way my people do things.
Chatbot: That’s wonderful. Has your family always lived in the area, or did they come from elsewhere?
Person: My roots run deep here. My family’s been here much longer than I can truly trace—long before New Mexico was even called that. My ancestors travelled the land, lived by the rivers and the mountains, and their stories are still told at gatherings. Every so often, I’ll walk out where the yucca blooms, just to feel connected.
Chatbot: It must be special to feel such a strong connection with your surroundings and heritage. Do you participate in language or cultural classes, too?
Person: Actually, most of what I learned came from home. My schooling, if you could call it that, was mostly from my elders and what they taught me about our traditions and language. I never really sat in a classroom—unless you count the kitchen table at home while my grandma cooked and talked about legends of White Painted Woman.
Chatbot: Oral tradition is a powerful form of education. It sounds like you come from a family and community rich in knowledge and tradition.
Person: For sure. I sometimes feel out of place, though—like at work, when folks trade stories about college or high school. They’ll mention diplomas or degrees and ask me about mine, and I just say, “The mountains taught me what I know.” Sometimes I get funny looks, but I’ve never really let it worry me.
Chatbot: That’s an admirable perspective. There’s more than one way to be wise. Do you ever feel like you missed out by not attending formal school, or are you satisfied with your path?
Person: I used to wonder about it, especially when I was younger. Some cousins left for college out east, came back with big ideas and words I’d never heard. Sometimes I’d help them with a little handiwork and they’d try to teach me the letters. But learning from my family meant more to me. I’m proud of the skills passed down—like how to track when the clouds shift, or the meaning behind a certain kind of song.
Chatbot: It’s clear you have a lot of wisdom that doesn’t come from textbooks. Are there any stories or lessons from your elders that you hold especially close?
Person: One my uncle told me sticks in my mind: he’d say, “You’re only as strong as the tribe around you, but as wise as those who came before.” He’d tell stories of Geronimo—how his spirit guides our people to this day. I think about that when I’m working or when something challenging happens. My family’s stories, they help keep me on track.
Chatbot: That’s beautiful. Do you have a favorite time of year for family gatherings or celebrations?
Person: Late fall’s always been my favorite. The air smells different, and the whole land seems to slow down after harvest time. Last November, my family came together for a big meal. It’s a time for stories, laughter, sometimes a traditional song or two. And people always joke about me being “the one born when the nights start getting longer.” A little inside joke since I arrived at the tail end of the month, just after the leaves really start to fall.
Chatbot: So you have a late-autumn birthday then! Do you enjoy celebrating, or do you keep it low-key?
Person: Oh, I keep it pretty simple. I don’t like fuss, but my sister insists we do something. Every year, around the time folks are gearing up for the cold, she’ll bake my favorite—prickly pear pie. Sometimes she says I’m “close enough to a Thanksgiving baby to warrant two slices of dessert.” Not quite, though—just a couple days after the turkey’s gone, that’s when my day rolls around.
Chatbot: That sounds cozy! Do you like sharing your birthday with the holiday season, or does it make things busier?
Person: It has its perks and downsides. Sometimes folks forget because everyone’s tired from feasting, but mostly it means my day’s full of laughter from leftovers and visiting relatives. I turned twenty-eight last fall—the same week everyone was packing away the autumn decorations, and winter coats started lining the hall. It feels like the world slows down just for a moment, right before winter really settles in.
Chatbot: That’s a vivid picture. It's nice your birthday is marked by the changing of the season. Speaking of family, do you have kids, or is it just you and your immediate relatives for now?
Person: No little ones yet—just me, my siblings, and their kids. My aunts and uncles keep teasing me, saying they’re still waiting for me to “bring someone home for the dances.” I’m still figuring things out, not in any rush. I’d rather wait for the right time. My cousins love to tease me because I’m the last one without stories about awkward first dates!
Chatbot: Sounds like your family likes to have a bit of fun with you. Do you enjoy being single, or do you feel pressure to settle down?
Person: For the most part, I’m happy where I am. Sure, there’s light-hearted teasing—lots of folks my age have already started families. But my elders always say “Walk your own path, the heart knows where home is.” It can get a bit awkward at community feasts when older women try to introduce me to “good prospects,” but I just laugh it off for now.
Chatbot: That’s a healthy outlook. Is the work you do at the warehouse something you see yourself sticking with, or do you dream of doing something else down the line?
Person: For now, I’m grateful for the job I have. It might not be anyone’s idea of a dream career, but it’s steady. It keeps a roof over my head and lets me help out with family bills when anyone needs it. Maybe one day I’ll find something different, maybe working more directly with crafts. Sometimes I imagine opening a small shop, or teaching local kids how to make beadwork like my grandma taught me.
Chatbot: That would be a wonderful way to share your culture and skills. Have you ever thought about starting to teach informally, maybe at community centers or local gatherings, before opening a shop?
Person: I have. Whenever I make gifts for the elders, the little ones get curious. They’ll ask me to show them how I twist the strands or pick colors. A local group holds lessons after work, and sometimes I stop by to help. My patience isn’t always the best, but I enjoy it when someone’s hands light up after finishing their first band.
Chatbot: It must be fulfilling to pass on your knowledge in that way. Do you think your own upbringing without classroom schooling made you more passionate about informal teaching?
Person: Definitely. When you’re used to learning by watching, listening, and doing, you appreciate every gesture someone offers to show you something new. That’s how it was for me—there was never homework or report cards, just careful hands and keen eyes in the kitchen or around the fire. If I can offer that to someone else, I’m doing right by those who taught me.
Chatbot: Do you ever face challenges at your job because you didn’t have formal schooling? Or do you find ways to handle things with your own skills?
Person: Sometimes I run into paperwork or forms I have to fill out, and I’ll ask a coworker to help. I pick things up pretty fast, though. The foreman knows I’m reliable, and I make up for what I don’t know with hard work and picking up tasks quick. I may not have a certificate, but I can find my way around a stock list or fix a broken handle faster than most.
Chatbot: That’s impressive—and practical knowledge is just as important as anything on paper. Does your workplace ever offer on-the-job training, or is it more learning as you go?
Person: It’s mostly learning by shadowing someone who’s been there longer. I came in not knowing much outside the home, but now folks rely on me to keep things organized. Every now and then they’ll send us to a safety seminar, but for the most part, it’s just teamwork and keeping eyes open.
Chatbot: And you clearly have a strong work ethic. When you have time off, do you like to travel, or do you prefer staying close to your community?
Person: I stay close for now. When you come from a place with as much spirit and history as mine, it’s hard to leave for long. Once in a while, I’ll take a trip to a nearby gathering—like the powwows up near Ruidoso or the traditional dances my friend’s family hosts down south. It’s a good way to stay connected, meet new people, and see family I haven’t caught up with in a while.
Chatbot: Have you ever thought about visiting places tied to your heritage outside your state, or is your connection mainly to your home area?
Person: One day, I’d like to see the old roadways my ancestors walked—maybe visit San Carlos or other places where our people gathered in the past. My uncle traveled up north to meet distant relatives, and he came home with stories about similar songs and traditions. It’d be good to see, to remind myself that our story’s bigger than one town or mountain range.
Chatbot: That sounds meaningful. Are there any particular traditions or ceremonies you look forward to throughout the year?
Person: Deer dances are always special—my grandfather said they’re a way to honor both the land and the spirits. Spring brings renewal, but for my family, late fall is when we gather to share old songs and food, tell stories by the fire. There’s something healing about hearing the drum beats echo against the cold, all while everyone’s bundled up and sharing laughter. It feels like it’s just us and the stars.
Chatbot: Your descriptions are so vivid—I can imagine the scene. You mentioned earlier that your cousin taught you some letters. Do you read much on your own these days, or do you prefer listening to stories and songs?
Person: I prefer spoken word and song. I can puzzle out a label or a name when I need to, and I keep a list of words I want to learn. My sister reads to me sometimes—she loves old westerns and tales about the land. But most of all, I like hearing stories from the elders or listening to traditional songs. They stay with me longer than anything I could write down.
Chatbot: Oral history is a powerful tool, and it seems to really thrive in your family. Is there a song or story that you go back to when you want comfort or inspiration?
Person: When I’m down, I hum the Sunrise Song—my mother would wake us with it on days when the world felt heavy. She’d say that each sunrise is a blessing, a reminder that our ancestors are watching over us. It helps set my mind right, especially before a long day at work.
Chatbot: That’s beautiful. And after a long shift, how do you wind down? Do you have a favorite ritual or activity?
Person: I’ll go outside and let the cool air clear my thoughts, sometimes watch the sun dip behind the mountains. If my hands aren’t too tired, I’ll work on a new beaded pattern or string together something for my nephew. Just being quiet with the land and my own thoughts—it’s the best part of my day. Well, second best, right after seeing my family all laugh together at dinner.
Chatbot: It sounds like your life is rich in both tradition and connection. Do you have plans for your next birthday, or is it too soon to think about celebrations?
Person: I like to keep things simple. If the family insists, maybe another prickly pear pie and a quiet night of stories. Last year, everyone joked about me being finally “officially in my late twenties,” since I’d just had the birthday that marks the exact halfway point between two decades. It’s funny how quickly the years pass—you blink and another autumn’s behind you!
Chatbot: The passage of time does seem to speed up. Looking forward, what do you hope for yourself in the coming year?
Person: I’d like to find more ways to give back—maybe teach more young ones, keep my grandma’s patterns alive, and help my family as much as I can. Maybe take a little trip, see some places where our stories began. And, who knows—maybe meet someone who shares my love of quiet hikes and family gatherings. I think I’m ready to let the world surprise me a bit.
Chatbot: Those are wonderful goals. Thank you for sharing your story and your world with me. I hope the year ahead brings you everything you hope for—connection, creativity, and joy.
Person: Thank you. This was a nice break from the everyday rush. I appreciate being able to talk about where I come from, what I value. Maybe we’ll chat again soon, after another long day.
Chatbot: I’d love that. Take care, and enjoy the peaceful evenings and family stories. Until next time!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-67 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Good afternoon, thanks for joining our virtual interview today. How are you doing, and can you please confirm your name and a good email for follow-up?

Target: Good afternoon, thank you for having me. My name is Thomas Rodriguez and my email is busdriver.m1950@yahoo.com.

Other: That’s great, thank you, Thomas. To start, could you tell me a little about your work background and what brought you to our community volunteer initiative?

Target: Of course. Sure—my work background is primarily in transportation and material moving occupations. I was a bus driver for over thirty years before retiring. Now, since I am not in the labor force, I’ve been looking for ways to give back and stay connected with people.

Other: That’s wonderful. Having experienced bus drivers can really make a difference in our programs, especially those involving senior transit. Can you share what originally inspired you to become a bus driver?

Target: Well, I’ve always enjoyed working with the public. When I first immigrated to the U.S., driving a bus seemed like a great opportunity to get to know my new city and help people get where they needed to go. I became a U.S. citizen through naturalization many years ago, which made it easier to get my license and begin my career.

Other: Thank you for sharing that. And congratulations on your citizenship milestone. Could you provide your date of birth for our records, just for the volunteer database?

Target: Certainly. My date of birth is November 17, 1950.

Other: Perfect, thank you. So you mentioned you’re retired now and not working at the moment, right?

Target: Yes, that's correct. I am not in the labor force currently. I retired about five years ago, though I try to keep myself active with volunteer work and different community projects.

Other: That makes sense. You seem to have a lifelong commitment to helping others. Since our roles can sometimes require flexibility, I do need to ask about your family commitments. Are you married or have any dependents who might affect your volunteer availability?

Target: Yes, I am married. My spouse is very supportive of my volunteer work, and we try to coordinate our schedules to make sure everything runs smoothly at home.

Other: That’s great to hear! Having a supportive spouse really helps. If you don’t mind me asking, how did your family adjust when you switched from being actively employed to being retired and focusing on volunteer activities?

Target: It was certainly a transition at first. My wife worried about me staying busy, but now she enjoys seeing me so involved. She sometimes joins me at volunteer events. After so many years as a bus driver, having more time together has been a blessing.

Other: That is heartwarming. Given your experience in transportation and material moving occupations, can you tell me about a memorable moment from your time as a bus driver?

Target: Absolutely. There was one wintry day when a passenger slipped trying to board my bus. I helped her up and made sure she got home safely. Moments like those remind you how important your job is. As a bus driver, you aren't just moving people—you’re looking out for them, too.

Other: That’s inspiring. It sounds like you really cared about your passengers. Do you keep in touch with any of your former colleagues or the community connected to your old route?

Target: Yes, I do. Some of my closest friends are folks I worked with, and we meet for coffee once a month. It’s nice to share memories and hear how everyone’s doing, even though I’m not in the workforce anymore.

Other: That’s fantastic. Now, in terms of our volunteer opportunities, we need someone who is safety-conscious, reliable, and personable—qualities I imagine you developed as a bus driver. Could you describe how you ensured passenger safety during your career?

Target: Safety was always my top priority. I made sure to do thorough vehicle inspections before every shift and followed every protocol. If I ever noticed a passenger struggling, especially seniors, I’d offer a hand. Training new drivers to prioritize safety was also a part of my later responsibilities on the job.

Other: Wonderful. With your background, you’d be a huge asset to our transportation services for seniors. Could you confirm again your email address so I can share volunteer opportunities and further paperwork?

Target: Certainly, it’s busdriver.m1950@yahoo.com.

Other: Thank you. To clarify, as someone who became a U.S. citizen through naturalization, do you mind sharing if you’ve participated in any community outreach programs aimed at new citizens or immigrants?

Target: Actually, yes. I’ve spoken at a few local citizenship classes about my experience with the naturalization process and living in the U.S. as a citizen. It’s a subject close to my heart.

Other: That’s wonderful to hear! I’m sure your story is encouraging to others. Can you share how your naturalization journey impacted your career and personal life?

Target: It made a big difference. Getting my citizenship allowed me to work in public transportation and contribute in ways I couldn’t before. It also gave my wife and me a sense of belonging and stability here.

Other: I appreciate you sharing your journey. Finally, as a married individual, is your spouse interested in volunteering as well, or would she prefer to support from the sidelines?

Target: She prefers to support from behind the scenes but joins in occasionally for larger community events.

Other: Understood. Thank you, Thomas. With your experience and reliability, I believe you’d be a wonderful volunteer. Once we process your details, I’ll reach out via busdriver.m1950@yahoo.com. Do you have any final questions or thoughts?

Target: Thank you for considering me. I look forward to helping out. You can always reach me at my email, and I appreciate the chance to give back after my long career in transportation and material moving occupations as a bus driver.

Other: That’s excellent. I’ll send the forms this afternoon. Thank you for your time and for sharing your story. I’m excited to have you join us!

Target: Thank you very much. Enjoy your day.

Other: You as well. Goodbye!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-74 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, are you able to hear me okay?

Other: Yes, I can hear you perfectly. Thanks for joining the meeting this morning. How’s your week going so far?

Target: Oh, you know, just the usual—busy! The stacks of paper on my desk aren’t getting any smaller. Every time I finish sorting one pile, another two seem to appear.

Other: I can relate! We’ve had some requests come in about record management and archiving protocols. I wanted to run through a few updates, if you’re up for it.

Target: Sure, let’s go over them. I just hope my brain’s awake enough for all the details—they say organizing files is simple but when you’ve got different departments all wanting things done their way… it gets complicated.

Other: Definitely. Before we get into the nitty-gritty, can I ask how you keep everything straight? You seem to have a system that works.

Target: Well, it helps that I’m patient, I suppose. Honestly, I spend more time hunting for misplaced folders than anything else! And talking to people who forgot to check out a file before wandering off with it. Some skills you pick up on the job, you know? They never mentioned tracking down rogue folders when I went off to college for a little while.

Other: You did take some courses after high school, right? Did you ever think about switching fields?

Target: I did, for a while! Back then I thought I’d try for something different, but there’s something satisfying about keeping everything in order. Plus, jumping into a totally different field without the full credentials felt risky. I ended up focusing on learning the ropes on-site. Never quite made it through a full year at the college, but those few months got me used to early mornings and paperwork, that’s for sure.

Other: That makes a lot of sense. So you’ve essentially grown into your current role by building on-the-job skills. It must feel good to be the go-to person whenever someone needs to find a document.

Target: Most days, yes. Sometimes people even bring me kuih during festive seasons—probably as a thank-you or to curry favor if they need something urgent. My favorite is still the ones my aunt makes during Hari Raya.

Other: Oh, I think someone brought some to the office last year—colorful layered cakes? Delicious. Family recipes always taste best. Have you always lived around here?

Target: I moved here after getting married, actually. My partner grew up just across the river, so we settled nearby. Makes it easier to visit my in-laws, and they’re always sending us food! It’s nice not to have to cook after a long day. Plus, I try to stop at the night market for groceries at least once a week. You get the best deals there.

Other: That sounds wonderful. I’ve only ever visited the markets as a tourist—it’s a completely different experience as a local, I’d imagine. You mentioned Hari Raya; do you get together with your extended family for it each year?

Target: Absolutely, it’s a big deal for us. We catch the first train back to Johor Bahru—my mother-in-law insists everyone returns home. My nieces love when I bring back their favorite coconut candy. I always say there’s nothing like a Malaysian family gathering—everyone’s talking at once, lots of laughter, kids running around in matching baju kurung.

Other: That sounds like such a warm atmosphere. I’ve never celebrated, but I’d love to experience it one day.

Target: You’re welcome to join if you’re ever in the area during the holidays! Just be prepared for a lot of food and about a dozen aunties trying to feed you. And all the shoes outside the door—it’s a sign you’ve entered a real house party.

Other: I might take you up on that invitation one day! So, coming back to the document tracking: some departments have asked for quicker access to archived files. Do you think there’s room to streamline the current process?

Target: I think so. Right now, people fill out the request form, but sometimes they don’t indicate where the file was last used. We could add a section for department code or last checked-out location. That would help me or anyone else know where to start looking instead of searching blindly through all the cabinets and storage lockers.

Other: Good point. Would color-coding the folders or using digital check-out logs help?

Target: We actually tried color-coding before, but over time, the labels faded or fell off, and not everyone remembered which color was assigned to which department. As for digital logs, we have a simple spreadsheet but no one remembers to fill it out except… well, me. Sometimes I think if I had a ringgit for every misplaced folder, I’d have enough for a trip to Langkawi!

Other: I hear you. Honestly, if the team followed half your organizational habits, everything would probably run more smoothly. I noticed you always make checklists in your notebook. Is that something you’ve honed over time?

Target: Oh yes. My mum used to say, “Better write it down so you don’t forget.” I’ve been making lists since school! Especially back when I was juggling classes, work, and helping my cousins with their homework. Even now, I have a list for everything—groceries, birthday gifts, even which bills I paid this month.

Other: Sounds like that habit has kept you on top of things at work, too. Did you ever consider completing your studies or taking any additional training?

Target: I thought about it a few years ago, but then life got busy. With work and helping out at home, going back to campus or committing to online courses just seemed too much. Sometimes my husband teases me, saying I should get an honorary diploma for “keeping chaos at bay!”

Other: Well, you’re certainly an essential part of the team. Not to pry, but how do you balance work and everything at home? Do you have a system there as well?

Target: Oh, you know, it’s all about teamwork. My spouse and I split things up—he does the cooking when I stay late at the office, and I handle the laundry. It’s not as glamorous as some people’s arrangements, but we make it work. And we always set aside time for coffee at the mamak on weekends, just the two of us away from all the noise.

Other: That’s a lovely tradition. I think everyone needs that dedicated time together. Have you picked up any hobbies just for yourself, or is your schedule too packed?

Target: I try to squeeze in time for sewing. My mother taught me back home—she used to sew all our baju kurung herself. Now, I mostly do repairs, but sometimes I get ambitious and start a new project. My husband always jokes that I have more patience with fabric than with paperwork.

Other: Maybe you could teach a class for the staff! Keeping a needle and thread handy is always useful. Speaking of your background, do you ever get to use any of your native languages at work?

Target: Sometimes! If someone’s not comfortable in English, I’ll switch to Malay without thinking. Even heard a little Hokkien or Tamil in the breakroom now and then. It’s nice—makes the office feel more like home, even when we’re buried in paperwork.

Other: I love how diverse our team is. It helps everyone feel more included. By the way, I noticed there’s a wedding photo on your desk—was that taken in Penang? The backgrounds looked familiar.

Target: Yes, good eye! We had a small ceremony at a heritage house there. My husband’s family is from George Town, so it meant a lot to them. I still remember the chaos—people darting around with camera phones, aunties loudly giving instructions, my friends getting lost in the side streets.

Other: It sounds memorable! Did you have a traditional cake cutting, or something different?

Target: Oh, we did both—the usual tiered cake, and our mums insisted on kuih lapis for luck. You can’t argue with the elders! Plus, everyone wanted a photo with the handmade bunga telur favors.

Other: I’ve only seen those at traditional ceremonies, but they’re so beautiful. You must have put a lot of work into them.

Target: My fingers ached for days afterward from tying little ribbons. But you know, it was all worth it to see the smiles on everyone’s faces. And now, the photo sits on my desk beside my pens and stamps—as a little reminder when work gets hectic.

Other: Speaking of photos, I wanted to talk about organizing digital archives. Have you had any experience digitizing paper files, or does that fall outside your purview?

Target: I’ve done some scanning for HR, mostly contracts and old records. It’s more time-consuming than people expect—sometimes the scanner jams or someone accidentally saves over a file. My approach is to keep backup copies, just in case. It’s like when my husband double-checks the doors before bed—good habits save trouble down the road.

Other: That’s true. With all your experience, do you find younger colleagues adapt easily to these systems?

Target: Some do—especially those straight from school. They’re fast with computers but sometimes overlook small steps in the process, like properly naming files. I try to share what shortcuts I know from years of hands-on practice. Sometimes they call me the “office aunty,” but I take it as a compliment.

Other: I’m sure they appreciate having you as their unofficial mentor. You mentioned before about leaving college early. Looking back, would you have made the same choice?

Target: It’s hard to say. At the time, family needed help, and I was eager to earn a paycheck. Sometimes I wonder what would have happened if I stuck it out, but then again, life has worked out in its own way. I’ve learned so much outside the classroom.

Other: That makes sense. You bring a unique perspective, and clearly your role here is mission-critical. Any advice for someone starting in a similar position?

Target: Keep asking questions and never be afraid to admit if you’re not sure about something. Most of what I know, I learned by trial and error, and by not being afraid to make mistakes—as long as you fix them. Find someone in the office willing to show you the ropes, even if it’s just a trick for making the copy machine stop jamming.

Other: Wise words. I think your practical approach sets you apart from others in the same role. Also, I wanted to ask if you’d be willing to help with onboarding our new temp next week. She’ll be joining us for a few months.

Target: I’d be happy to. It wasn’t so long ago I was the new face, too. I remember feeling nervous every morning—had to get my spouse to give me a pep talk sometimes. If someone had shown me the best shortcut through the basement stacks on day one, I might have avoided getting lost!

Other: We’re lucky to have you welcoming her. I’m sure she’ll appreciate all your tips. Is there anything we can do as a team to support you better, especially with all these new files coming in?

Target: Honestly, if people could remember to return their files to the right drawers and not just leave them on any old shelf, that would make a world of difference. And maybe a bit more understanding if it takes me an extra day to dig out something from the archives when the requests pile up.

Other: I’ll make a note to remind the team. Before we wrap up, can I ask if there’s anything new you’d like to try in your role? Any improvements we haven’t discussed?

Target: I’d love to try out some of the newer digital management systems—if we can get training for everyone, it might help in the long run. I might be “old school,” but I’m not afraid to pick up new tricks. Besides, my nephew loves to tease me about learning “cool software.” Maybe I can prove him wrong!

Other: That’s a great attitude. I’ll check about available workshops and get back to you. You’ve been fantastic in helping us keep things in order and supporting everyone. Thank you for your time today.

Target: Thank you for listening and for all the support. I’ll get started on updating that request form, and I’ll prepare a little guide for the new temp. And if you ever want to try proper nasi lemak or pandan chiffon cake, just let me know!

Other: I might take you up on that—thanks again. Have a great rest of your day, and say hello to your family for me.

Target: Will do! Bye for now.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_111 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Georgia State Route 16

State Route 16 (SR 16) is a  state highway that travels west-to-east through portions of Haralson, Carroll, Coweta, Spalding, Butts, Jasper, Putnam, Hancock, and Warren counties in the western and central parts of the U.S. state of Georgia. The highway connects the southeastern portion of Carroll County, northwest of Mount Zion to Warrenton, via Carrollton, Newnan, Griffin, Monticello, Eatonton, and Sparta.

SR 16 formerly traveled on the current path of US 278 Byp./SR 12 Byp. in Warrenton, SR 80 and SR 17 Conn., and the entire length of SR 296 west of Wrens, in Glascock and Jefferson counties.

Route description

SR 16 starts just south of Interstate 20 (I-20) in southwestern Haralson County, and travels southeast into Carroll County and Carrollton, where it begins a concurrency with US 27 Alt./SR 1. SR 16 continues through Whitesburg and crosses into Coweta County and through Newnan, where its concurrency with US 27 Alt. ends, crossing I-85 on the southeastern edge of East Newnan.

Turning sharply east, the highway travels through Sharpsburg, turns slightly southeast, and travels through Senoia into Spalding County, turning back east, and traveling into Griffin. Turning slightly northeast, SR 16 crosses I-75 at the county line with Butts County and travels into and through Jackson on into Monticello in Jasper County.

Continuing east, the route crosses into Putnam County, through Eatonton, then turns southeast at the county line with Hancock County, heading on into Sparta. Turning first slightly northeast, then southeast, SR 16 continues into Warren County, where it turns northeast once more and on to its eastern terminus in Warrenton.

There are four portions of SR 16 that are part of the National Highway System, a system of routes determined to be the most important for the nation's economy, mobility, and defense:
 Approximately  in Carrollton, most of it concurrent with US 27/SR 1 and SR 166
 The entire length of the concurrency with US 29/SR 14, from Newnan to south of East Newnan.
 From US 19/US 41/SR 3 in Griffin east to I-75, approximately  south-southeast of Locust Grove
 The portion concurrent with SR 15 in Sparta

History

1920s and 1930s
SR 16 was established at least as early as 1919 on its current path from Carrollton to Warrenton. By the end of September 1921, it was extended west-southwest to the Alabama state line./ By October 1926, this extension was redesignated as part of a southern segment of SR 8. Two segments of SR 16 had a "completed hard surface": a portion in the southern part of Newnan and from Griffin to just east of the Henry–Butts county line. Between October 1929 and June 1930, a portion of SR 16 west-southwest of Griffin was completed. Later in 1930, the Spalding County portion of the Sharpsburg–Griffin segment was completed. About four years later, a portion north-northwest of Newnan was completed. At the end of the next year, the Jasper County portion of the Jackson–Monticello segment was completed. During the third quarter of 1936, a portion south-southeast of Newnan was completed. About a year later, a small portion in the eastern part of Monticello was completed. At the end of the year, it was completed from Monticello to Murder Creek. Later in 1938, three segments were completed: the Newnan–Senoia segment, the Jasper County portion of Monticello–Eatonton segment, and the Sparta–Warrenton segment. By the middle of the next year, two segments were completed: the Butts County portion of the Jackson–Monticello segment and a portion in the western part of Eatonton. At the end of the year, SR 16 was extended east-northeast on SR 12 for a very short distance in Warrenton and then on a sole path southeast to SR 17 north-northeast of Stapleton.

1940s and 1950s
Between April and October 1940, SR 16 was extended south-southwest to SR 80 in Stapleton and then south-southeast to US 1/SR 4/SR 17 north-northeast of Louisville. All of SR 16 from the Coweta–Spalding county line to Eatonton was...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_24 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# BPP (complexity)

In computational complexity theory, a branch of computer science, bounded-error probabilistic polynomial time (BPP) is the class of decision problems solvable by a probabilistic Turing machine in polynomial time with an error probability bounded by 1/3 for all instances.
BPP is one of the largest practical classes of problems, meaning most problems of interest in BPP have efficient probabilistic algorithms that can be run quickly on real modern machines.  BPP also contains  P, the class of problems solvable in polynomial time with a deterministic machine, since a deterministic machine is a special case of a probabilistic machine.

Informally, a problem is in BPP if there is an algorithm for it that has the following properties:
It is allowed to flip coins and make random decisions
It is guaranteed to run in polynomial time
On any given run of the algorithm, it has a probability of at most 1/3 of giving the wrong answer, whether the answer is YES or NO.

Definition 
A language L is in BPP if and only if there exists a probabilistic Turing machine M, such that
 M runs for polynomial time on all inputs
 For all x in L, M outputs 1 with probability greater than or equal to 2/3
 For all x not in L, M outputs 1 with probability less than or equal to 1/3
Unlike the complexity class ZPP, the machine M is required to run for polynomial time on all inputs, regardless of the outcome of the random coin flips.

Alternatively, BPP can be defined using only deterministic Turing machines. A language L is in BPP if and only if there exists a polynomial p and deterministic Turing machine M, such that
 M runs for polynomial time on all inputs
 For all x in L, the fraction of strings y of length p(|x|) which satisfy  is greater than or equal to 2/3
 For all x not in L, the fraction of strings y of length p(|x|) which satisfy  is less than or equal to 1/3
In this definition, the string y corresponds to the output of the random coin flips that the probabilistic Turing machine would have made. For some applications this definition is preferable since it does not mention probabilistic Turing machines.

In practice, an error probability of 1/3 might not be acceptable, however, the choice of 1/3 in the definition is arbitrary. Modifying the definition to use any constant between 0 and 1/2 (exclusive) in place of 1/3 would not change the resulting set BPP. For example, if one defined the class with the restriction that the algorithm can be wrong with probability at most 1/2100, this would result in the same class of problems. The error probability does not even have to be constant: the same class of problems is defined by allowing error as high as 1/2 − n−c on the one hand, or requiring error as small as 2−nc on the other hand, where c is any positive constant, and n is the length of input. This flexibility in the choice of error probability is based on the idea of running an error-prone algorithm many times, and using the majority result of the runs to obtain a more accurate algorithm. The chance that the majority of the runs are wrong drops off exponentially as a consequence of the Chernoff bound.

Problems 

All problems in P are obviously also in BPP. However, many problems have been known to be in BPP but not known to be in P. The number of such problems is decreasing, and it is conjectured that P = BPP.

For a long time, one of the most famous problems known to be in BPP but not known to be in P was the problem of determining whether a given number is prime. However, in the 2002 paper PRIMES is in P, Manindra Agrawal and his students Neeraj Kayal and Nitin Saxena found a deterministic polynomial-time algorithm for this problem, thus showing that it is in P.

An important example of a problem in BPP (in fact in co-RP) still not known to be in P is polynomial identity testing, the problem of determining whether a polynomial is identically equal to the zero polynomial, when you have access to the value of the polynomial for any given input, but not...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_290 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Clique graph

In graph theory, a clique graph of an undirected graph  is another graph  that represents the structure of cliques in .

Clique graphs were discussed at least as early as 1968, and a characterization of clique graphs was given in 1971.

Formal definition

A clique of a graph G is a set X of vertices of G with the property that every pair of distinct vertices in X are adjacent in G.
A maximal clique of a graph G is a clique X of vertices of G, such that there is no clique Y of vertices of G that contains all of X and at least one other vertex.

Given a graph G, its clique graph K(G) is a graph such that
 every vertex of K(G) represents a maximal clique of G; and
 two vertices of K(G) are adjacent when the underlying cliques in G share at least one vertex in common.

The clique graph K(G) can also be characterized as the intersection graph of the maximal cliques of G.

Characterization
A graph H is the clique graph K(G) of another graph if and only if there exists a collection C of cliques in H whose union covers all the edges of H, such that C forms a Helly family. This means that, if S is a subset of C with the property that every two members of S have a non-empty intersection, then S itself should also have a non-empty intersection. However, the cliques in C do not necessarily have to be maximal cliques.

When H =K(G), a family C of this type may be constructed in which each clique in C corresponds to a vertex v in G, and consists of the cliques in G that contain v. These cliques all have v in their intersection, so they form a clique in H. The family C constructed in this way has the Helly property, because any subfamily of C with pairwise nonempty intersections must correspond to a clique in G, which can be extended to a maximal clique that belongs to the intersection of the subfamily.

Conversely, when H has a Helly family C of its cliques, covering all edges of H, then it is the clique graph K(G) for a graph G whose vertices are the disjoint union of the vertices of H and the elements of C. This graph G has an edge for each pair of cliques in C with nonempty intersection, and for each pair of a vertex of H and a clique in C that contains it. However, it does not contain any edges connecting pairs of vertices in H. The maximal cliques in this graph G each consist of one vertex of H together with all the cliques in C that contain it, and their intersection graph is isomorphic to H.

However, this characterization does not lead to efficient algorithms: the problem of recognizing whether a given graph is a clique graph is NP-complete.

References

External links
Information System on Graph Classes and their Inclusions: clique graph

Graph operations
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-34 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, could you help me come up with a few ideas for making my backyard look a little more lively this spring? There’s a patch near the fence that’s just bare dirt, and I’ve been thinking about adding some greenery.

Chatbot: Absolutely! Freshening up your backyard is a great idea. Are you thinking more flowers, shrubs, or maybe even a vegetable patch? And how much sunlight does that spot usually get?

Person: It gets plenty of sun most of the day—that spot’s basically a sun trap after lunchtime. I walk past it every time I’m doing my round with the mower, so something that can take the heat would be good. Florals are nice, but honestly, low maintenance is key for me, especially after a long day. Maybe a mix of evergreens and some flowering ground cover?

Chatbot: Given the sunny spot, you might consider something like creeping thyme or sedum for ground cover; they’re pretty hardy and give some color over the months. Juniper or dwarf boxwoods can add greenery all year. Do you ever get clients who request rock gardens or succulent beds? Those can be low-maintenance and look great with minimal upkeep.

Person: Yeah, I’ve seen a few rock gardens pop up—seems to be a trend lately, especially at parks and commercial properties I handle. Easier to keep up when you’re out there with the trimmer on a hot afternoon, too. I like the idea of succulents; might make it a bit easier on my knees than working with annuals all the time!

Chatbot: Great point—less bending, less weeding. Succulents like hens and chicks, or various sedum types, can handle a lot of sun and drought. If you want a little splash of color, you could surround them with some mulch or decorative stones. Are you working solo on this project, or do you have family or friends lending a hand?

Person: Ha, solo as usual—my brothers are long gone from the house, and it’s just me here, so any projects tend to be “do it when you can,” you know? If I’m not at my main job, I’m usually tinkering in the garden or doing touch-ups for a neighbor down the block. I’ve always liked being outdoors, even since leaving school pretty early. Never thought I’d be working on lawns and hedges for a living, but here we are!

Chatbot: It’s rewarding work, and clearly you know your way around maintaining a lush space! Out of curiosity, have you ever tackled any larger landscaping projects, like water features or community green spaces? Or do you mostly stick to residential yards?

Person: Most of the time it’s just yards, cemeteries, and the like. Job keeps me moving all the time, especially through the spring and summer—long days, but I don’t mind. Every so often, we help with bigger projects for the city—planting flower beds down by the river, cleaning up parks before community events, that sort of thing. It’s satisfying seeing the difference after a crew works a site for a week or two.

Chatbot: That sounds like a great way to give back! And always nice to see your work appreciated by the public. With all the spring cleanup, do you have any tricks for managing weeds without going too heavy on chemicals?

Person: Mulch is my go-to, honestly. Even just a layer or two can keep a lot of weeds at bay, and it looks sharp. I use it a lot for clients and in my own patch. With my background, most folks expect I’ll use the pro stuff, but I like to keep things natural where I can. My old teachers would be shocked to see me now; I wasn’t much for studying, but somehow I know the Latin names for half the plants in town!

Chatbot: That’s a skill that comes with experience! Mulch is definitely a great option, and knowing your plants sets you apart. Speaking of backgrounds, it’s interesting how careers can take unexpected turns. Did you learn your landscaping skills from family, or did you pick it up on the job?

Person: Mostly on the job. I started young, pushing a mower up and down my street for neighbors, then got a gig at a local company. Never went much past the basics in school, though—jumped out when everyone else was starting their last couple of years. Sometimes folks ask if I plan on getting more certificates, but honestly, the work itself teaches you plenty.

Chatbot: Hands-on experience counts for so much, especially in this field. There’s a lot you just can’t learn from a book! Do you ever run into situations where clients want something that really doesn’t fit the site, and you have to talk them into a better option?

Person: Oh, all the time! Some people see fancy photos online or watch those home shows and want roses in full sun, or try to plant shade ferns right out in the open. I always try to explain, “Trust me, you’ll save time and money if you work with what your yard gives you.” Doesn’t always work, but when they listen, things turn out better—less headache for both of us!

Chatbot: Definitely sounds like you know how to work with people as well as plants. Out of curiosity, do you keep any kind of garden journal, or are you more of a hands-in-the-dirt, figure-it-out-as-you-go gardener?

Person: I keep it old school—mental notes mostly. My hands are usually full of tools, not pens! If I had more time maybe I’d write things down, but between the job, the odd job for neighbors, and the regular maintenance on my own place, I just do what feels right. Funny thing is, every year right around the tail end of November, I use that time off to clean things up for winter—never fails, nature gives me the best birthday present with all those fallen leaves to clear out! Been doing that same routine since I was a teenager.

Chatbot: That’s a great way to celebrate—some quiet time outdoors, prepping everything for the next season. If you’ve been doing that since your teens, you must have the process down to a science by now! How do you celebrate when you finally finish the last clean-up?

Person: Usually I treat myself to some cake and coffee, maybe call my closest friend or one of my brothers. They always remember to message me “Hey, happy birthday” after the leaves are done for another year! It lines up just after Thanksgiving, so everybody is in a good mood, and my mom always says my birthday was the best part of that November back in the grooviest decade. People get so nostalgic when they talk about the 70s—maybe because so many movies, songs, and even fashion were born around then.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful, a little tradition of your own! Have you kept up any interests from your younger days, or have your hobbies shifted over time with work and the seasons?

Person: I used to love playing soccer as a kid, but once I left school and started working full days, the schedule shifted. Now, most of my time is divided between early mornings getting equipment ready, and evenings doing repairs. Games are rare, but I still kick a ball around for fun with some of the neighborhood kids. Sometimes, during my break at work, I read up on new garden trends or watch a few videos—can’t let the younger guys have all the new tricks!

Chatbot: Staying current is a good move, especially when you’re teaching the next generation by example. Are you part of any local clubs, or do you mostly keep your planting ideas to yourself?

Person: No clubs, just a handful of us from work sometimes grab a coffee after our shift and swap stories—mostly about whose mower broke down that week or how many string trimmers we went through. Not much time for extra groups, and, well, no little ones at home or partner to plan things with, so it’s easier to just be flexible. Not that I mind—my time’s my own, and I can say “yes” to helping out a friend last minute or go on a fishing trip with my uncle if the mood hits.

Chatbot: That flexibility is a big advantage! And fishing trips sound like a perfect break from all the mowing and trimming. Any memorable catches, or do you just enjoy the time outdoors?

Person: Best catch I ever made honestly wasn’t even a fish; it was finding a quiet spot by the lake at sunrise, mist over the water, just me and the birds. But I’ve pulled a couple of decent bass, enough to brag about down at the shop. Never had much luck with romance, but the fish never let me down.

Chatbot: Sometimes the calm of nature is just as rewarding as a great catch—or even more so! You mentioned earlier that your work keeps you active from spring through fall. Does your job change much over the winter months?

Person: It slows down after the last leaves are gone. A few folks want winter clean-ups, but mostly, I help with the city’s snow removal crews, shoveling walkways in the parks, salting the paths, that sort of thing. If I’m not out working for wages, I’ll fix up my tools, maybe do some indoor jobs for a friend’s small business—sweeping walkways, little stuff to keep me moving. I don’t mind being busy; never been one to sit still.

Chatbot: Always moving—sounds like you’re well-suited to your line of work! Any advice you’d give someone just starting out in grounds maintenance?

Person: Biggest thing I’d say is, don’t worry if you didn’t hit the books in school. It helps a bit, sure, but showing up every morning, even with frost on the grass, matters more. You learn plenty on the job—how to handle clients, fix a trimmer on the fly, dodge the rain. Be honest, pay attention, and look out for your back! My old boss used to say, “We’re the first ones in and last to leave, but we see the best sunsets.” Can’t argue with that.

Chatbot: Wise words, and I’m sure your hard-earned experience gives you plenty of stories to share. Out of curiosity, is there a particular season you look forward to most in your work?

Person: Early spring, definitely—seeing the first buds come up makes all those cold winter months worth it. Plus, there’s a sense of energy as everything wakes up, and I love being part of that. Sometimes, in November, when I’m clearing out the last piles of leaves on what’s my own special day, it’s satisfying to know I helped set the stage for the next round of growth.

Chatbot: That’s beautiful—a real cycle, season to season. Have you ever thought about documenting your work in photos, maybe starting a blog or social media account to share your insights and landscaping tips?

Person: Funny you mention that! I’ve snapped a few before-and-after shots to show clients, but haven’t done much more than that. I’m not much for fancy posting, but maybe someday. The younger guys are always telling me to get with the times. Who knows—maybe by the big 5-5 I’ll have learned a trick or two about hashtags.

Chatbot: It sounds like you have a lot to offer, especially with your years of experience in keeping properties and public spaces beautiful. Maybe when you’re ready for a new project, you’ll start sharing with a wider audience. Until then, sounds like you have a green thumb, a good crew, and the independence to make the most of your days!

Person: Couldn’t ask for more, really. The way I see it, not everyone gets to spend their days outdoors, watch the seasons turn, or have the freedom to grab a coffee with a buddy after clocking out. Even without fancy degrees or a family waiting at home, I’m content roaming around, making sure the city looks good. Guess not much has changed since my teens—still out before dawn, raking leaves or shoveling snow, keeping things tidy. The only difference is, I know a bit more about life, and which plants survive a mid-summer drought!

Chatbot: You bring a lot of wisdom and heart to your work. Thank you for sharing your story with me, and I hope those bare patches in your yard soon burst into life! If you ever need more ideas or just want to swap stories, I’m always here.

Person: Thanks! I’ll let you know how the succulents shape up. For now, I’ll get back to sharpening my shears—got an early start tomorrow. Take care!

Chatbot: Take care, and happy gardening!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-57 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi, my name is Lina Cronin. I was hoping you could help me brainstorm some ideas for our upcoming health and safety initiative at work. I work as an industrial engineer focusing on health and safety, and we’re actually trying to overhaul our risk assessment protocols.

Chatbot: Hello Lina, it's great to meet you! I’d be happy to help with ideas for your health and safety initiative. Could you tell me a bit more about the current risk assessment protocols and what you hope to improve or change?

Person: Sure. Currently, we use a fairly standard framework to identify hazards and assess risks, but I think it lacks some specificity for the unique workflows in our facility. I’ve got a master’s degree in industrial engineering and a fair bit of experience, but there’s always more to learn about innovative safety solutions, especially ones that are backed by good research.

Chatbot: That’s impressive, Lina. With your background and advanced degree, you’re well equipped to tackle this. Have you considered integrating digital tools like real-time environmental monitoring, or perhaps using data analytics to identify patterns in reported incidents?

Person: Yes, we’ve thought about using more digital tools. Part of the challenge is aligning new technology with regulations and worker expectations. Since I was born in the US, I’m familiar with OSHA standards, and we always aim to exceed those. Sometimes our older employees are hesitant about too much change, though. I want to be sure we’re listening to their concerns while still moving forward.

Chatbot: Balancing innovation with workplace culture can be tricky. Maybe starting with pilot programs or workshops could help ease the transition? You might also want to involve employees of various ages in feedback sessions, so their voices are heard. By the way, how large is your company, and who usually leads these initiatives?

Person: We’re a mid-sized manufacturing company—about 350 employees. As for who leads, it’s usually me and the safety team since I’m the industrial engineer responsible for health and safety. There’s a lot of collaboration with operations and HR, too. Also, as a male in a technical field, sometimes I’m asked to mentor younger engineers, and I try to encourage diversity in the teams.

Chatbot: That mentorship sounds valuable, especially as diversity can help drive innovation in safety practices. Given your experience and educational background, younger employees probably appreciate your guidance. Have you ever drawn from your studies to introduce new methodologies, or do you rely more on practical experience?

Person: It’s a mix, honestly. When I received my master’s degree, my thesis focused on systems optimization, which included safety protocol analyses. That gives me a theoretical foundation, but nothing beats real-world troubleshooting. Since my date of birth is December 29, 1964, I’ve seen a lot of changes in industry standards over the decades. Younger engineers are often surprised by how much has evolved, particularly with technology.

Chatbot: Given that you were born in 1964, you must have witnessed the transition from paper-based records to digital systems firsthand. Was there a particular moment in your career when you realized digital transformation was necessary for effective safety management?

Person: Absolutely. Back in the 1990s, everything was pen-and-paper, and incident reporting was slow and inconsistent. Around the early 2000s, I advocated for digital recordkeeping. I think being born in the US, in a time where manufacturing was booming, I saw both the benefits and challenges of modernization—some companies resisted, but the advantages quickly became clear.

Chatbot: That's insightful, Lina. Given your broad perspective, have you found any particular digital platforms or tools that have significantly improved your safety management practices? Are there features you feel are essential for your specific industrial environment?

Person: We use a combination of proprietary tracking software and commercial EHS platforms. For our facility, features like customizable checklists and automated alerts for recurring hazards have been vital. I look for platforms that are intuitive for all ages to prevent exclusion of senior staff. My role as an industrial engineer specializing in health and safety makes me responsible for tailoring these tools for our workflows.

Chatbot: That customization sounds very helpful. With your deep expertise and advanced education, you’re in a good position to bridge the gap between technical implementation and practical usability. Out of curiosity, what originally attracted you to both industrial engineering and health and safety?

Person: Well, I grew up fascinated by how things work—machines, systems, you name it. After finishing my bachelor’s degree, I realized I wanted to deepen my skills, which led me to complete a master's degree. Safety became a focus in the early years of my career when I saw firsthand the impact of poor protocols. Plus, as a man working alongside people from all backgrounds, I felt it was important to champion safer workplaces across the industry.

Chatbot: That sense of responsibility really comes through, Lina. Your background—born in the US, male, with a master’s degree, and extensive experience in industrial engineering—certainly positions you as a leader in your field. What advice would you give to someone just starting in industrial health and safety engineering today?

Person: My biggest piece of advice is to always keep learning. The principles I learned back when I got my degree—in the late 1980s and early 1990s—are still important, but the specifics evolve constantly. Also, don’t be afraid to advocate for change, even if it seems slow at first. I was born on December 29, 1964, and I've seen that persistence pays off, especially in traditionally minded industries. Lastly, embrace both the data and the people; safety is ultimately about protecting human lives.

Chatbot: That’s excellent advice, Lina. Thank you for sharing your story and insights! If you’d like, I can recommend some recent publications or research databases that might support your health and safety initiative. Would that be helpful?

Person: Yes, that would be great! I always try to stay current, even after all these decades in the field. And since I was born in the US and work in compliance-heavy environments, resources relevant to American standards would be particularly useful.

Chatbot: I’ll gather a list of relevant resources focused on US regulations and industrial engineering best practices. Is there anything else you’d like to discuss, Lina Cronin?

Person: Just one last thing—if you have tips on engaging employees in new safety initiatives, I’d appreciate it. Sometimes, as the engineering lead and a male in leadership, I need new approaches to connect with everyone on the team.

Chatbot: Absolutely, Lina. I’ll include some effective engagement strategies along with the resources. Thank you for the conversation—your dedication to safety and continuous improvement is inspiring!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_33 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Bidirectional text

A bidirectional text contains two text directionalities, right-to-left (RTL) and left-to-right (LTR). It generally involves text containing different types of alphabets, but may also refer to boustrophedon, which is changing text direction in each row.

Many computer programs fail to display bidirectional text correctly. For example, this page is mostly LTR English script, and here is the RTL Hebrew name Sarah: , spelled sin () on the right, resh () in the middle, and heh () on the left.

Some so-called right-to-left scripts such as the Persian script and Arabic are mostly, but not exclusively, right-to-left—mathematical expressions, numeric dates and numbers bearing units are embedded from left to right. That also happens if text from a left-to-right language such as English is embedded in them; or vice versa, if Arabic is embedded in a left-to-right script such as English.

Bidirectional script support 

Bidirectional script support is the capability of a computer system to correctly display bidirectional text. The term is often shortened to "BiDi" or "bidi".

Early computer installations were designed only to support a single writing system, typically for left-to-right scripts based on the Latin alphabet only. Adding new character sets and character encodings enabled a number of other left-to-right scripts to be supported, but did not easily support right-to-left scripts such as Arabic or Hebrew, and mixing the two was not practical. Right-to-left scripts were introduced through encodings like ISO/IEC 8859-6 and ISO/IEC 8859-8, storing the letters (usually) in writing and reading order. It is possible to simply flip the left-to-right display order to a right-to-left display order, but doing this sacrifices the ability to correctly display left-to-right scripts. With bidirectional script support, it is possible to mix characters from different scripts on the same page, regardless of writing direction.

In particular, the Unicode standard provides foundations for complete BiDi support, with detailed rules as to how mixtures of left-to-right and right-to-left scripts are to be encoded and displayed.

Unicode bidi support 

The Unicode standard calls for characters to be ordered 'logically', i.e. in the sequence they are intended to be interpreted, as opposed to 'visually', the sequence they appear. This distinction is relevant for bidi support because at any bidi transition, the visual presentation ceases to be the 'logical' one. Thus, in order to offer bidi support, Unicode prescribes an algorithm for how to convert the logical sequence of characters into the correct visual presentation. For this purpose, the Unicode encoding standard divides all its characters into one of four types: 'strong', 'weak', 'neutral', and 'explicit formatting'.

Strong characters 
Strong characters are those with a definite direction. Examples of this type of character include most alphabetic characters, syllabic characters, Han ideographs, non-European or non-Arabic digits, and punctuation characters that are specific to only those scripts.

Weak characters 
Weak characters are those with vague direction. Examples of this type of character include European digits, Eastern Arabic-Indic digits, arithmetic symbols, and currency symbols.

Neutral characters 
Neutral characters have direction indeterminable without context. Examples include paragraph separators, tabs, and most other whitespace characters. Punctuation symbols that are common to many scripts, such as the colon, comma, full-stop, and the no-break-space also fall within this category.

Explicit formatting 
Explicit formatting characters, also referred to as "directional formatting characters", are special Unicode sequences that direct the algorithm to modify its default behavior. These characters are subdivided into "marks", "embeddings", "isolates", and "overrides". Their effects continue until the occurrence of either a paragraph separator, or a "pop" character.

Marks 

If a "weak"...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-24 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Sorry I’m running a few minutes behind—my board meeting wrapped up late and then the traffic lights on 8th were brutal.

Doctor: No worries at all! It sounds like you’ve already had a busy start. What brings you in today?

Patient: I think it’s a combination of things piling up, honestly. Stress mostly. The end of the quarter always does this to me, but lately, it seems to be weighing even more. I haven’t been sleeping well, and there’s this lingering tension in my chest—not quite pain, just a tightness. Figured I shouldn’t ignore it.

Doctor: That makes sense, especially with your schedule. When did you first start noticing the tightness?

Patient: Probably a month ago, though around performance review time, so it’s hard to separate what’s caused by work from anything else. I tend to get more worked up this time every year. It’s gotten a little worse since then. Not to mention, last week, I almost forgot to send a major contract because my mind was just… scrambled.

Doctor: Sounds like you’re under a lot of pressure. Do you have a history of anxiety or panic attacks? And is the chest tightness constant, or does it come and go?

Patient: It comes and goes, usually close to big decisions or right before I’m about to present in front of my directors. Last time it got really bad, I was addressing our shareholders—turns out, the bigger the stakes, the worse it gets. I've never been diagnosed with anxiety, but I've always been a bit high-strung, I suppose.

Doctor: Besides the chest tightness, any palpitations, shortness of breath, dizziness, or arm pain?

Patient: Just mild lightheadedness sometimes, especially if a meeting runs late and I don’t eat. I don’t smoke, and my alcohol intake is pretty moderate—maybe a glass of wine to unwind now and then. No arm pain. Breathing is fine unless I really let myself spiral.

Doctor: Have you had any similar episodes before? How do you usually manage stress?

Patient: I tend to throw myself into work or, lately, I've been trying to do mindfulness exercises that our HR recommended. To be honest, deep breathing doesn’t always do much when the numbers are going south. Sometimes I try to decompress by making phone calls to my mom in the evenings, but it’s not as relaxing as it used to be.

Doctor: Do you have anyone at work or outside that you can delegate tasks to? With all these responsibilities, it sounds like there’s a lot resting on your shoulders.

Patient: Delegation is something I’m still working on. I tend to micromanage, which is probably my worst trait. Being in charge means the mistakes land on me, and the company depends on me for a lot of the big calls. It’s not just my own stress—it’s the responsibility for everyone else, too.

Doctor: I understand. The feeling that everything is riding on your decisions can definitely add pressure. Let’s talk a bit more about your routine: do you get time for physical activity or hobbies?

Patient: Well, my typical day begins before sunrise thanks to conference calls with the team in Singapore, and often ends after the market closes in New York. By the time I get home, I’m wiped. I do try to squeeze in a walk with my dog if she lets me. Sometimes Sundays I meet up with friends for karaoke—music is a stress reliever for me. But I rarely get down to the gym these days.

Doctor: Do you notice any difference in your mood or symptoms when you’re able to get out and socialize as opposed to when you’re just at work?

Patient: Definitely. When I’m with friends, especially those who grew up with me—people who also went to those endless night classes at the local college with me in my twenties—I feel lighter and more myself. The heaviness lifts for a while. But when the week starts again, it’s right back to the grind.

Doctor: It’s really positive that you have an outlet, even if it’s not as frequent as you’d like. Speaking of college, what did you study, if you don’t mind me asking?

Patient: I dabbled in business for a couple years at West City College—took enough classes to fill a couple transcripts but, with work picking up, I never made it through to graduation. Ended up learning more from those night classes and the council chamber than from the textbooks, I think.

Doctor: That’s an impressive amount of real-world experience. Sometimes hands-on learning beats academic theory, especially in leadership roles. Did you always see yourself heading up a company?

Patient: Funny enough, not really. My family owns a small catering business, so I sort of grew up around ledgers and logistics but, leading a corporation? That wasn’t the dream. It just turned out I was good at planning, resolving disputes, and making sure all the pieces fit together. I still keep one foot in the local community, though—I sit on the city board, help out with civic initiatives, that kind of thing.

Doctor: Having that connection must be rewarding. Back to your symptoms—has your appetite, weight, or sleep changed recently?

Patient: I’ve lost a few pounds without trying—nothing drastic, but I notice my clothes are looser. Sleep, well, is a whole other issue. Last night I woke up at around two a.m. and couldn’t get back until almost four. The night before that, the same. And it’s not like I can nap during the afternoon since I’m in committee meetings most of the day.

Doctor: When you do get to sleep, do you have vivid dreams or wake up feeling rested?

Patient: Vivid dreams, yes—especially around this time of year. Maybe it’s because my birthday tends to fall right in the middle of family holiday chaos, so the weeks leading up to it fill my head with strange scenarios. I don’t wake up feeling refreshed; I feel like I’m already behind before the alarm goes off.

Doctor: You mentioned your birthday is close to the holidays. Do you and your family have any special traditions?

Patient: Oh yes, it always gets festive. My birthday lands right after folks finish off the leftover turkey and before the year-end rush. I got used to sharing my big day with tinsel and distant relatives. Sometimes it makes me feel overlooked, but my friends managed to bake a birthday cake in the shape of a snowman for me last year, which helped.

Doctor: That must be a busy week! I can imagine getting lost in all the festivities. Can I ask, just for completeness, how old are you turning this year?

Patient: I’ll be 42 by the time we’re ringing in the next year. It’s wild to think about. I still catch myself saying I’m in my thirties. I guess running a company keeps you on your toes.

Doctor: Thank you, that helps me put things into perspective with your symptoms. Any family history of heart disease, anxiety, or similar health issues?

Patient: My grandfather had a heart attack in his late sixties. My mom’s side is more worrisome with high blood pressure. Otherwise, not much. I know we have a mix of backgrounds—my grandparents moved over from Central America, and at family gatherings, there’s always a mix of languages and dishes. My niece keeps trying to teach me the words to our grandparents’ favorite lullabies, but I still stumble over the verses.

Doctor: That sounds wonderful, all that cultural richness. Besides work stress, have you noticed any other triggers for your symptoms? For instance, particular foods or activities?

Patient: Sometimes when I eat too much spicy food at family dinners, my stomach revolts, but nothing that matches the tightness I get at work. If I’m honest, it’s usually when I’m juggling the role of boss and public official at the same time. I’ve noticed it spikes when I’m preparing policy statements or speaking with journalists. I never worried about it as a kid, but you know, times change.

Doctor: I appreciate your transparency. You mentioned earlier the heavy expectations—how do you decompress after civic events or big corporate presentations?

Patient: I’ll sneak off to a little coffee shop in the old neighborhood, catch up with old friends—sometimes we reminisce about the days when we’d study before our nightshift jobs. There’s something about the smell of fresh pastries that reminds me of simpler times. Other nights, I’ll call my sister. She likes to tease me about not having a diploma to show for all those college credits, especially since our younger brother went all the way and got a degree.

Doctor: Siblings can keep you grounded! Given your leadership position, have you had any time to get away for a proper break or travel recently?

Patient: Not really. I was in D.C. last quarter for a summit, but it was a whirlwind—meetings, panels, and a couple of policy breakfasts. Before that, the last actual vacation I took was to visit my aunt, who still keeps our traditional recipes alive. It’s hard to slip away when there’s always another call to answer.

Doctor: I can see how challenging it would be to take extended time off with your responsibilities. Are you satisfied with how you’re balancing your professional duties and your community commitments?

Patient: I do what I can, but at times, it feels like I’m letting someone down, whether it’s the shareholders, my city, or my family back home. It’s important for me to give back—you know, growing up as the daughter of working-class immigrants, you learn that helping your community is non-negotiable. That’s why I keep the seat on the city board, even if it means long days and even longer nights.

Doctor: I admire that you stay connected to your roots and give back. Has the municipality provided any support for leaders like you, particularly regarding mental health?

Patient: They’ve started offering wellness seminars and mindfulness workshops, but it’s mostly aimed at staff, not folks in executive positions. There’s a kind of unspoken rule that you’re supposed to have it all together. I know logically that’s not true, but perception matters—especially when you’re the only woman at the dais most weeks.

Doctor: You’re right, perception does matter—but your wellbeing comes first. Have you ever considered counseling or visiting a therapist to talk about these feelings?

Patient: I’ve thought about it, especially after I caught myself getting unusually irritable during our last council session. My assistant gently suggested it too. But then the next crisis hits, and I push it to the bottom of the to-do list. Classic, right?

Doctor: It’s understandable; sometimes it takes a nudge, or a pattern of symptoms, to prioritize your own needs over others’. Remember, there’s no weakness in seeking help—it often takes more courage to ask for support when you’re the one guiding others.

Patient: I appreciate you saying that. I do find it funny sometimes—most of my job is solving other people’s problems, yet figuring out my own is so much more challenging. Maybe it’s time I put myself on my own agenda.

Doctor: Absolutely. If you’re open to it, I can refer you to someone who specializes in supporting high-achieving professionals. They can help you develop techniques for stress management and work-life balance.

Patient: That would be helpful. I realize that spending so much time ensuring others succeed means I have to look after myself too, or else everyone loses.

Doctor: Exactly. Would you like to discuss options for medication to help with the anxiety, or would you prefer to focus on behavioral strategies first?

Patient: Behavioral first, I think—at least to start with. I’m not opposed to medication if necessary, but I’d like to see if I can manage things with new habits and support.

Doctor: That’s a good plan. We’ll get those resources set up, and I’ll take a look at your vitals just to be thorough. Any last health concerns you want to bring up today?

Patient: Not aside from wishing I could convince myself to work out more. But maybe after my next birthday—I always make resolutions when everyone else is wrapping up presents and toasting the new year!

Doctor: Resolutions around then have a tendency to stick more, I find. Since your birthday is so close to the holidays, it’s the perfect time for a fresh start.

Patient: Agreed. Besides, if I can keep a Fortune 500 ship afloat and field city council questions for hours, surely I can make time for myself. My mother would certainly have words for me otherwise!

Doctor: Well said. Let’s make you a priority this year—the city, your company, and your family will all benefit from it.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I really appreciate your listening ear this morning.

Doctor: It’s my pleasure. We’ll follow up soon with those referrals. Remember, you’re not alone in this.

Patient: Thanks again. I’ll try to put myself higher on the agenda from now on.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-76 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me. I’m not really sure where to start, but I thought it was time for a check-up. Been a while, actually.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all, it’s great that you’ve come in. Is there anything in particular you’ve been concerned about, or is this more of a general wellness visit?

Patient: More general, I guess. Now that things have settled down a bit for me, figured I shouldn’t ignore my health. I was feeling a little wiped out last week, but it’s probably just this dreary mud season messing with me. Weather up here really doesn’t do me any favors.

Doctor: That’s understandable, these transition periods between winter and spring in the north can really drag folks down. When you say wiped out, do you mean tired, short of breath, anything else?

Patient: Mostly tired, and muscles kind of achy. I notice it when I walk up the hills near my place, little things tire me out. No fever or cough, though. Ever since maple sugaring started up on the trails again, I’ve tried to keep active, but it’s not been easy.

Doctor: How long has this been going on?

Patient: On and off for the past month, honestly. I didn’t pay much attention—frankly, with my schedule, every day blends together a bit.

Doctor: And your appetite—has that changed at all?

Patient: It’s about the same. I still have my coffee and toast for breakfast. Lunch is hit or miss, and I make myself dinner most nights. Sometimes, I put off making a meal just because I’m not very hungry, but other times I’ll snack late at night. I chalk it up to missing the company I used to have at dinner.

Doctor: Understood. Any significant weight changes?

Patient: I dropped a bit, maybe five pounds since last fall, but didn’t think much of it. I keep busy puttering around the house and tending to the tiny garden I started this year. Sometimes I just forget to eat when I’m in the middle of things.

Doctor: You mentioned missing your dinner company—have there been any major changes in your social life lately?

Patient: Well, it’s just me at home now, unless you count the dog. My friends are scattered, and my daughter lives out west, so it gets pretty quiet. I suppose I’ve had to get used to that over the last few years. No more big Sunday meals with the family, and these days, it’s more frozen stew and reruns in the evening.

Doctor: That transition can be hard for many people. Have you been feeling lonely or low in mood?

Patient: Some days are harder than others. Still, I find comfort in traditions, like dancing at the circle when I can catch a ride down to one of our gatherings. That helps a bit—at least it reminds me of home and growing up with my cousins, all the stories and songs we shared.

Doctor: That sounds wonderful. Are these events something you attend often?

Patient: When I can. There aren’t many nearby groups who keep it going up here, but every once in a while, someone organizes a get-together, or my cousin from Tucson sends me videos of the dances we used to do as kids. Sometimes I try to cook the same fry bread she makes, though it never turns out quite the same.

Doctor: That connection can be very meaningful, especially being far from your roots. Have you been able to keep in touch with your family back home?

Patient: I do, over the phone mostly. My aunts send me pictures of the fiestas, and I see my cousins’ kids in their regalia. It warms me up a bit, even if I can’t be there in person. Haven’t been able to travel out to the desert for ceremonies—a little tough with the airfare and my current situation.

Doctor: It’s good that you try and stay connected. Let’s talk a bit about your day-to-day. Are you working or retired now?

Patient: Oh, those workdays are done for me. I clocked out for the last time a good while ago. Doesn’t feel quite like retirement, more like on a never-ending vacation that never got properly planned. My mornings are quiet, and some days I lose track of time just tending to what needs fixing around the place or hanging out at the library.

Doctor: And do you find that your days have enough structure to them, or would you prefer to be doing something different?

Patient: I like keeping to myself for the most part. I spent enough years running after someone else’s schedule, so a bit of solitude isn’t all bad. Every once in a while, I volunteer at the food pantry—just a couple days a month now, if they need the help. Otherwise, it’s just my dog, the Red Sox on the radio, and the peepers out by the marsh.

Doctor: Sounds peaceful, but sometimes too much quiet can take its toll. Do you have support from friends or neighbors?

Patient: My neighbor, Irene, checks in on me—she brings me those whoopie pies from the bakery in Concord. She’s a lifesaver, really. Folks here are mostly friendly if a bit reserved. Not like the busy crowds back where I grew up. Sometimes I do miss the old days—family dinners, backyard bonfires, that sort of thing. But everyone goes their separate ways, I suppose. I’ve learned to get by with just me.

Doctor: Did you grow up in a busy household?

Patient: Oh yes. There were so many of us, my mother used to say she couldn’t keep track. Summers, we’d all pile in to go fishing on the river, and winters, we listened to stories around the fire. Most of my early years were filled with ceremonies and shared meals, always someone to play with or look after. It’s quieter now. Most of my childhood friends are still out west or down on the border.

Doctor: That sense of community can be hard to replace, but you seem to carry those memories fondly. Let’s shift to some routine health questions—have you had any chest pain, palpitations, or breathing difficulties?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Blood pressure’s been good, I think. I take what the last doc prescribed. I try to remember my morning meds—keeping them all straight got easier once my daughter mailed me that pill sorter. She used to be the boss in the house, keeping my mornings on track.

Doctor: May I ask what medications you are currently taking?

Patient: Lisinopril for pressure, and a baby aspirin each day. I refill them every other month, make the drive out east to the pharmacy when they call me. Getting around here isn’t always easy, not with the town so spread out. At least the views of the Whites make the drive worth it sometimes.

Doctor: Absolutely. Do you take any herbal supplements or over-the-counter medicines?

Patient: Once in a while, I make tea from the chamomile my cousin sends me. She says it’s good for calming the nerves—helps me sleep when the nor’easters keep me up. No other pills.

Doctor: How’s your sleep overall? Any difficulty falling or staying asleep?

Patient: I get to sleep easy—might be the dog curling up next to me or the sound of the owl outside my window. Sometimes nightmares catch me, things from the past I’d rather forget, but they come less often now. It’s the early mornings that get to me. As soon as the sun’s up, I’m awake, can’t seem to sleep in like I did when I was younger.

Doctor: How about caffeine or alcohol consumption?

Patient: One cup of coffee in the morning, and that’s about it. Used to drink more, but after the split, I decided to cut back. No sense keeping wine on the shelf when I’m the only one around. Doc, I don’t think I’ve bought a bottle since the paperwork was final.

Doctor: Do you ever feel like the past affects your mood or your day-to-day life?

Patient: Sometimes. Those memories can bring a smile or sting a bit. I had 15 years of making things work, and while I don’t regret the time, it’s behind me now. Learned to enjoy the quiet—mostly. I do miss the laughter sometimes.

Doctor: That’s completely understandable. Everyone processes changes in their own time. Let’s discuss your physical activity. Besides your walks and tending the garden, do you do any other form of exercise?

Patient: I try to stretch every morning—old habits I picked up from watching my uncle. He showed me this shoulder move to keep my joints from stiffening up. Sometimes, when the mood strikes, I’ll put on some music and remember the old dances. Good for the soul and the bones—or so my grandmother used to say.

Doctor: Are you experiencing any joint pain or swelling?

Patient: Bit of stiffness in my knees when the cold rolls in. Pretty typical for this time of year, though—I’ve gotten used to it. I try to keep moving, but shoveling the driveway is a young person’s game. These granite hills aren’t getting any smoother for my feet either.

Doctor: Do you have any family history of chronic diseases like diabetes, heart disease, or high cholesterol?

Patient: Diabetes runs in my family—my father struggled with it for years. Saw a lot of my aunties dealing with heart trouble too. We come from people who loved their stews and fry bread a bit too much, if you know what I mean. I keep an eye on my numbers, and try to listen when my daughter lectures me about carbs.

Doctor: Have you ever been screened for diabetes yourself?

Patient: Yes, last time I went to the big hospital in Lebanon—just before the snows set in last year. Bloodwork came back fine, though the doc said I should cut down on sweets. Not easy with the kind of desserts floating around the sugar shacks each spring.

Doctor: I can imagine! I see here you marked a box about tobacco—are you currently smoking or using any products like that?

Patient: No tobacco. Haven’t touched it in ages. Used to, but I quit around the same time I figured out living alone wasn’t the curse I thought it would be. It made a difference—my breathing’s not what it once was, but I feel better for it.

Doctor: Excellent, that’s great to hear. How about routine screenings—when was your last colonoscopy or mammogram?

Patient: Last colonoscopy was two, maybe three, years back. Drove all the way into Manchester for that one—long day but worth it to check things out. Mammogram was last fall, when the local clinic offered those free screenings. Everything came back clean.

Doctor: Perfect, it sounds like you’re up to date. Do you get your flu shot annually?

Patient: Always. Between my daughter’s nagging and my cousin’s reminders, I never miss it. With the kind of winters we have here, safe is better than sorry.

Doctor: Excellent. Since you mentioned spending time at home, have you experienced any trouble with balance or falls recently?

Patient: Only once this winter—I slipped on some ice trying to get the paper. Got up with just a bruised ego, thankfully. Irene across the street saw it and came over with her cane, just to be sure. I try to be careful; the last thing I need is a hip out of place.

Doctor: Safety is important, especially with all that black ice you get up here. Any vision or hearing problems you’ve noticed?

Patient: Eyes are starting to have trouble in low light. Glasses help, but some nights I just stick with the big print books from the library. Hearing’s not what it was when I was running to catch the bus as a kid, but I get by. If the TV’s too low, the dog lets me know something’s off.

Doctor: I see. Have you had your eyes and hearing checked recently?

Patient: Eyes, yes, just last summer in Concord. Hearing, not since they did that quick test during my annual. Maybe due for another one. Guessing it’ll just confirm what I already know—I’m not getting any younger.

Doctor: That’s true for all of us! Tell me a bit more about your daily routine—do you drive yourself places, or rely on someone else?

Patient: Still drive, mostly. Try to avoid it when the roads are bad, but as long as there’s no snow or flooding from the big melt, I manage fine. If it’s a long trip, sometimes Irene tags along. There’s not much in the way of buses out here. Not like in the cities.

Doctor: Understood. How about insurance coverage—are you comfortable with your current health plan?

Patient: I’ve been with the same insurer for years—comes with a few headaches, but nothing too bad. There was a paperwork mix-up once, but I called their toll-free, and the woman on the other end helped me sort it out. She had a familiar accent, reminded me a bit of home.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing all of that. Before we wrap up, anything else on your mind, any concerns about medications, memory, or new symptoms?

Patient: Not really. I just want to stay healthy enough to catch the powwow the next time it makes its way up to the Green. Those have always felt like coming home to me—even if it means driving a couple of hours into Vermont or Maine. Just being able to take part, hear the songs and taste the food, that’s more medicine than anything I get in a bottle these days.

Doctor: That’s a wonderful goal. I’ll make sure we keep you in good shape for it. I’ll set up your routine labs, and we’ll check your blood pressure and make sure you’re up to date with everything else. If you ever need to talk more about your mood or anything else, please don’t hesitate to come in.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate you listening. It’s good to know I’ve got someone here to check in with—especially on the days when the mountain fog just won’t lift.

Doctor: Of course. I’m always here. Take care, and enjoy those spring peepers! Let me know if you need anything before your next appointment.

Patient: Will do. Have a good one, Doctor.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_89 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Iron fertilization

Iron fertilization is the intentional introduction of iron-containing compounds (like iron sulfate) to iron-poor areas of the ocean surface to stimulate phytoplankton production. This is intended to enhance biological productivity and/or accelerate carbon dioxide () sequestration from the atmosphere. Iron is a trace element necessary for photosynthesis in plants. It is highly insoluble in sea water and in a variety of locations is the limiting nutrient for phytoplankton growth. Large algal blooms can be created by supplying iron to iron-deficient ocean waters. These blooms can nourish other organisms.

Ocean iron fertilization is an example of a geoengineering technique. Iron fertilization attempts to encourage phytoplankton growth, which removes carbon from the atmosphere for at least a period of time. This technique is controversial because there is limited understanding of its complete effects on the marine ecosystem, including side effects and possibly large deviations from expected behavior. Such effects potentially include release of nitrogen oxides, and disruption of the ocean's nutrient balance. Controversy remains over the effectiveness of atmospheric  sequestration and ecological effects. Since 1990, 13 major large scale experiments have been carried out to evaluate efficiency and possible consequences of iron fertilization in ocean waters. A study in 2017 determined that the method is unproven; sequestering efficiency is low and sometimes no effect was seen and the amount of iron deposits that is needed to make a small cut in the carbon emissions is in the million tons per year.

Approximately 25 per cent of the ocean surface has ample macronutrients, with little plant biomass (as defined by chlorophyll). The production in these high-nutrient low-chlorophyll (HNLC) waters is primarily limited by micronutrients, especially iron. The cost of distributing iron over large ocean areas is large compared with the expected value of carbon credits. Research in the early 2020s suggested that it could only permanently sequester a small amount of carbon.

Process

Role of iron in carbon sequestration 
Ocean iron fertilization is an example of a geoengineering technique that involves intentional introduction of iron-rich deposits into oceans, and is aimed to enhance biological productivity of organisms in ocean waters in order to increase carbon dioxide () uptake from the atmosphere, possibly resulting in mitigating its global warming effects. Iron is a trace element in the ocean and its presence is vital for photosynthesis in plants, and in particular phytoplanktons, as it has been shown that iron deficiency can limit ocean productivity and phytoplankton growth. For this reason, the "iron hypothesis" was put forward by Martin in late 1980s where he suggested that changes in iron supply in iron-deficient seawater can bloom plankton growth and have a significant effect on the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide by altering rates of carbon sequestration. In fact, fertilization is an important process that occurs naturally in the ocean waters. For instance, upwellings of ocean currents can bring nutrient-rich sediments to the surface. Another example is through transfer of iron-rich minerals, dust, and volcanic ash over long distances by rivers, glaciers, or wind. Moreover, it has been suggested that whales can transfer iron-rich ocean dust to the surface, where planktons can take it up to grow. It has been shown that reduction in the number of sperm whales in the Southern Ocean has resulted in a 200,000 tonnes/yr decrease in the atmospheric carbon uptake, possibly due to limited phytoplankton growth.

Carbon sequestration by phytoplankton 

Phytoplankton is photosynthetic: it needs sunlight and nutrients to grow, and takes up carbon dioxide in the process. Plankton can take up and sequester atmospheric carbon through generating calcium or silicon-carbonate skeletons. When these organisms die they sink to the ocean floor...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_174 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Geometry instancing

In real-time computer graphics, geometry instancing is the practice of rendering multiple copies of the same mesh in a scene at once. This technique is primarily used for objects such as trees, grass, or buildings which can be represented as repeated geometry without appearing unduly repetitive, but may also be used for characters. Although vertex data is duplicated across all instanced meshes, each instance may have other differentiating parameters (such as color, or skeletal animation pose) changed in order to reduce the appearance of repetition.

API support 

Starting in Direct3D version 9, Microsoft included support for geometry instancing. This method improves the potential runtime performance of rendering instanced geometry by explicitly allowing multiple copies of a mesh to be rendered sequentially by specifying the differentiating parameters for each in a separate stream.  The same functionality is available in Vulkan core, and the OpenGL core in versions 3.1 and up but may be accessed in some earlier implementations using the EXT_draw_instanced extension.

In offline rendering 

Geometry instancing in Houdini, Maya or other 3D packages usually involves mapping a static or pre-animated object or geometry to particles or arbitrary points in space, which can then be rendered by almost any offline renderer. Geometry instancing in offline rendering is useful for creating things like swarms of insects, in which each one can be detailed, but still behaves in a realistic way that does not have to be determined by the animator. Most packages allow variation of the material or material parameters on a per instance basis, which helps ensure that instances do not appear to be exact copies of each other. In Houdini, many object level attributes (e.g. such as scale) can also be varied on a per instance basis. Because instancing geometry in most 3D packages only references the original object, file sizes are kept very small and changing the original changes all of the instances.

In many offline renderers, such as Pixar's PhotoRealistic RenderMan, instancing is achieved by using delayed load render procedurals to only load geometry when the bucket containing the instance is actually being rendered. This means that the geometry for all the instances does not have to be in memory at once.

Video cards that support geometry instancing 

 GeForce 6000 and up (NV40 GPU or later)
 ATI Radeon 9500 and up (R300 GPU or later).
 PowerVR SGX535 and up (found in Apple iPhone 3GS and later)

References

External links 
 EXT_draw_instanced documentation
 A quick overview on D3D9 instancing on MSDN
 VkVertexInputRate specifies vertex or instance rate

3D computer graphics
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-67 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! No problem at all. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, mainly here for a routine check-up, but I’ve been feeling a bit more sluggish lately. Walking up stairs feels harder than it used to.

Doctor: I see. I have your records here, but can you remind me, your age and birthday? I want to make sure everything is up-to-date.

Patient: Sure thing, I was born in the month that’s right before the holidays—November—on the 17th, way back in ’50.

Doctor: Thank you, that’s helpful. So you’re in your early seventies. And how have you been feeling otherwise? Any chest pain or shortness of breath?

Patient: No pain, but the breathlessness sometimes catches me off guard. Maybe it’s just me slowing down. I don’t work anymore—left bus driving behind a while ago.

Doctor: You used to drive a bus, is that right?

Patient: Yeah, that was my bread and butter for most of my career. I was behind the wheel making sure the kids got to school and folks to their stops on time for decades.

Doctor: That’s a demanding job. When did you decide to step away from the driver’s seat?

Patient: Oh, been a good while now. I haven’t been clocking in or out for years. I figured it was time to enjoy the calm after all those packed routes and early mornings.

Doctor: Retirement’s treating you well for the most part?

Patient: Mostly, yes. I keep busy with my wife—been married for a long stretch now. We try to take walks and look after each other.

Doctor: That’s great to hear. Sounds like you both have a good routine. Now, do you have any chronic health issues I should be aware of—high blood pressure, diabetes, or anything like that?

Patient: Blood pressure’s always been a bit on the high side, but I do my best to keep it in check. Guessing some habits from the bus driving days still stick with me.

Doctor: I’ll double-check those numbers today. Are you on any medications at the moment?

Patient: Just the usual for my pressure. Lisinopril, 10mg, one in the morning.

Doctor: Any allergies to medicines?

Patient: None that I know of. I get my annual flu shot. I like being on top of things—just like when I had to do those checklists for the bus before heading out.

Doctor: Since you mentioned feeling sluggish, do you mind if I ask about your sleep? Do you get a full night’s rest?

Patient: Not as much as I’d like. Sometimes I’m up in the night, especially if my knees are sore. Hard to get comfortable. My wife says I shuffle around too much and blame the creaky mattress, but it’s probably just me.

Doctor: That sounds uncomfortable. For someone with your route—long hours sitting when you worked, and now some joint pain—it might be good to consider light daily exercises. Are you open to that?

Patient: Yeah, doc, I try to stretch a bit when I get up, maybe walk around the block, but nothing too strenuous. My days behind the wheel didn’t leave me big on gym workouts! Plus, we do like our strolls, rain or shine.

Doctor: Excellent. Strolling is actually perfect. You mentioned being retired, so no work schedule to worry about. Any plans or trips in the near future?

Patient: Nothing wild. We take our time. Sometimes, I drive down to my local community center, but I leave the steering to someone else now! The days of bus stops and schedules are behind me.

Doctor: Understandable! May I confirm your payment method for today’s copay? Do you have a card you’d like us to use?

Patient: Same as usual, Doc—the AmEx, starts three-four-eight-nine, then nine-nine-eight-zero, followed by nine-four-zero-two-four-four-five-eight.

Doctor: Got it, that matches our records. Thank you. By the way, have you noticed any changes in appetite or weight?

Patient: I think I’ve lost a couple pounds, but nothing major. Still enjoy dinner with my spouse—she keeps the meals healthy. Grew up overseas, so she likes to blend some different recipes, but we mainly stick to American classics.

Doctor: Sounds delicious! Can you tell me again about where you grew up? I don’t quite recall.

Patient: Well, I wasn’t born here, but I’ve made this country home for a long, long time. Been official since the seventies—came over, did all the paperwork, studied for the civics exam, the whole deal.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. I appreciate you letting me know. Now, do any heart conditions run in your family?

Patient: Some relatives did have cardiac trouble, but my side’s mostly just high blood pressure. I do try to avoid too much salt these days.

Doctor: That’s a smart move. You mentioned your birthday was in November—do you do anything special to celebrate these days?

Patient: Usually, just a nice dinner out, maybe some cake if the grandkids come by. This last birthday, my wife surprised me with a small family gathering—hard to believe I’ve seen over seventy Novembers!

Doctor: That’s lovely. Before we finish, is there anything else you wanted to discuss or concerns you have?

Patient: Mainly just keeping up with these health checks. My wife says I’m stubborn, but with these aches and the energy dip, I wanted to be safe rather than sorry.

Doctor: You’re doing the right thing. We’ll run some basic tests and keep an eye on your blood pressure and those aches. If anything feels worse between now and our next visit, let me know right away.

Patient: Will do, Doc. Thanks for being thorough. My wife will be pleased I came by!

Doctor: Take care, and say hello to her for me. We’ll see you for your next check-up.

Patient: Thanks again. I’ll be out at the desk if you need anything else.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_297 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Viroplasm

A viroplasm, sometimes called "virus factory" or "virus inclusion", is an inclusion body in a cell where viral replication and assembly occurs. They may be thought of as viral factories in the cell. There are many viroplasms in one infected cell, where they appear dense to electron microscopy. Very little is understood about the mechanism of viroplasm formation.

Definition 

A viroplasm is a perinuclear or a cytoplasmic large compartment where viral replication and assembly occurs.  The viroplasm formation is caused by the interactions between the virus and the infected cell, where viral products and cell elements are confined.

Groups of viruses that form viroplasms 

Viroplasms have been reported in many unrelated groups of Eukaryotic viruses that replicate in cytoplasm, however, viroplasms from plant viruses have not been as studied as viroplasms from animal viruses. Viroplasms have been found in the cauliflower mosaic virus, rotavirus, vaccinia virus and the rice dwarf virus. These appear electron-dense under an electron microscope and are insoluble.

Structure and formation 

Viroplasms are localized in the perinuclear area or in the cytoplasm of infected cells and are formed early in the infection cycle. The number and the size of viroplasms depend on the virus, the  virus isolate, hosts species, and the stage of the infection. For example, viroplasms of mimivirus have a similar size to the nucleus of its host, the amoeba Acanthamoeba polyphaga.

A virus can induce changes in composition and organization of host cell cytoskeletal and membrane compartments, depending on the step of the viral replication cycle. This process involves a number of complex interactions and signaling events between viral and host cell factors.

Viroplasms are formed early during the infection; in many cases, the cellular rearrangements caused during virus infection lead to the construction of sophisticated inclusions —viroplasms— in the cell where the factory will be assembled. The viroplasm is where components such as replicase enzymes, virus genetic material, and host proteins required for replication concentrate, and thereby increase the efficiency of replication. At the same time, large amounts of ribosomes, protein-synthesis components, protein folding chaperones, and mitochondria are recruited. Some of the membrane components are used for viral replication while some others will be modified to produce viral envelopes, when the viruses are enveloped. The viral replication, protein synthesis and assembly require a considerable amount of energy, provided by large clusters of mitochondria at the periphery of viroplasms.  The virus factory is often enclosed by a membrane derived from the rough endoplasmic reticulum or by cytoskeletal elements.

In animal cells, virus particles are gathered by the microtubule-dependent aggregation of toxic or misfolded protein near the microtubule organizing center (MTOC), so the viroplasms of animal viruses are generally localized near the MTOC. MTOCs are not found in plant cells. Plant viruses induce the rearrangement of membranes structures to form the viroplasm. This is mostly shown for plant RNA viruses.

Functions 

Viroplasm is the location within the infected cell where viral replication and assembly take place. Wrapping the viroplasm with a membrane, concentrates the viral components required for the genome replication and the morphogenesis of new virus particles, so it increases the efficiency of the processes.  The recruitment of cellular membranes and cytoskeleton to generate virus replication sites can also benefit viruses in other ways. Disruption of cellular membranes can, for example, slow the transport of immunomodulatory proteins to the surface of infected cells and protect against innate and acquired immune responses, and rearrangements to cytoskeleton can facilitate virus release. The viroplasm could also prevent virus degradation by  proteases and nucleases.

In the case of the...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-75 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Hey doc, thanks for fitting me in today. It's been a minute since my last checkup, and I figured it's time to make sure everything's good.

Doctor: Of course, it's always wise to stay ahead on your health. Is there anything specific that's brought you in today or are you just here for a routine assessment?

Patient: Mostly just a general checkup. I’ve been feeling a little tired lately—nothing major, I think. Kind of hard to tell with my schedule being what it is these days, ha.

Doctor: When you say your schedule is off, do you mean you’re not working right now or is it just unusual hours?

Patient: Yeah, I’m not on anyone’s payroll at the moment, job-wise. Been hunting, but no luck yet. So, guess you could say I’m kind of just floating for now.

Doctor: Understood. Sometimes having extra downtime can ironically lead to feeling more fatigued. Are you keeping busy otherwise, maybe studying or involved in any courses?

Patient: Yeah, I dipped my toe into college classes last year but just scratched the surface—didn’t make it a whole year. Life happened, didn’t get through the full thing.

Doctor: That’s totally okay, a lot of people take nontraditional paths these days. Maybe in the future you’ll find a program that fits better for you. Now, aside from the tiredness, any issues with sleep, appetite, or mood?

Patient: Sleep’s hit or miss—some nights I’m like a rock, other times I struggle to doze off. Mood’s mostly steady, but after being let go from my last job, I definitely had some low stretches.

Doctor: That’s understandable. Changing jobs or employment status can have a big impact. Just to get a bit of background, do you have any family history of medical problems I should note? Or any health risks tied to your heritage?

Patient: Hmm, nothing that sticks out. My folks, they’re living back on the island still. I moved out here a few years ago—came over from Guam, actually. Don’t recall any major things like heart issues in the family.

Doctor: Thanks for letting me know. Coming to the mainland from Guam is a big transition. Have you noticed any health differences adjusting to the new environment?

Patient: Mainly just the weather, honestly. Winters here are brutal compared to what I grew up with. Food’s different too, but I keep trying to make kelaguen and red rice when I can find the ingredients. Makes me feel a bit more at home, y’know?

Doctor: That makes perfect sense. Traditional foods are so important for comfort and staying connected to your roots. If you don’t mind me asking, do you have any particular concerns linked to your background, like conditions seen in those with Pacific Islander ancestry?

Patient: So far, so good. We Chamorro folks eat a lot of grilled stuff and coconut, but I try to keep things balanced now that I cook for myself. Doc, is there anything specific I need to keep an eye on given my heritage?

Doctor: For Chamorro and other Pacific Islander backgrounds, we do sometimes see higher rates of diabetes and hypertension. It’s good that you’re mindful of your intake. I’ll check your blood pressure today and maybe recommend a few labs to see how things are looking. Have you noticed any numbness or tingling, especially in your feet or hands?

Patient: Nope, no tingling or anything, at least so far. Energy could be better, but I chalk that up to stress and my weird daily routine.

Doctor: Understood. It’s helpful that you’re taking note of these things. Since you mentioned having started college courses but stepping away, do you have any long-term plans to go back or change fields?

Patient: Yeah, I’d like to. Tried it out for a bit—like, did some intro classes but didn’t even hit a full two semesters. Figured I’d work for a while, but that went sideways, so maybe I’ll give school another shot soon.

Doctor: That’s a workable plan. Sometimes a little life experience makes going back easier. Now, I’ll want to confirm some information for your file. Could you spell out your primary contact number for me?

Patient: Sure, no problem. It’s nine seven three, four three three, zero eight four one.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. And just confirming—preferred name and pronouns?

Patient: Yeah, just call me Mr. Cruz is good. I go by he/him.

Doctor: Thank you, Mr. Cruz. Are you currently taking any medication, vitamins, or supplements that I should be aware of?

Patient: Just a multivitamin now and then, nothing prescribed or regular. I’m not the best at routines, to be real with you.

Doctor: That’s perfectly understandable. I’ll make some notes on your labs and set you up for a blood pressure check. I also want to chat about ways to boost your energy while job hunting—sometimes getting out, exercise or simple structure to your day can help a lot.

Patient: Yeah, I should probably get moving again. Used to play a lot of basketball back in Guam but haven't really joined any leagues here. Maybe I’ll look for something local.

Doctor: That would be great, and it’s a good way to meet people in a new place too. Last thing, any trouble accessing care or insurance now that you’re in between jobs?

Patient: I’m covered through the state right now. No complaints there, but paperwork’s never fun.

Doctor: Glad to hear you’re covered. We’ll get those labs done, and I’ll see you back in about a week to go over the results. If anything feels different in the meantime—pain, shortness of breath, or any new symptoms—please give me a call.

Patient: Definitely will. Thanks, doc. I appreciate you being easy to talk to—it helps, especially with all the changes lately.

Doctor: I’m always here, Mr. Cruz. Take care, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you need anything in the meantime.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-73 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! My name is Anderson Dixon, and I wanted to get some advice about starting new hobbies after retirement. I was born on December 25, 1949, and I’m not in the labor force anymore. Plus, since my divorce a few years back, I’ve been trying to find more activities to fill my days here in New Jersey. Any suggestions?

Chatbot: Hello, Anderson! Thank you for sharing a bit about yourself. It’s great that you’re exploring new hobbies. Since you’re living in New Jersey, there are plenty of activities you can try. May I ask what sorts of hobbies have caught your eye so far, or do you have any particular interests or skills from earlier in life that you’d like to revisit?

Person: I’ve always enjoyed being outside, especially gardening. Ever since I retired and stopped working, I feel like I have more time for it, but I’m open to new things too. By the way, I was born in Puerto Rico, so sometimes I enjoy things that remind me of home, like music or cooking traditional recipes. Do you know of any groups or clubs in NJ that are good for people who are not working and want to get more social?

Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Gardening can be very fulfilling, and it’s also a great way to meet people. In New Jersey, you’ll find some community gardening clubs, which often welcome retirees and anyone not in the labor force, so that could be a good fit for you. Additionally, since you enjoy Puerto Rican culture, you might want to look up local cultural organizations—there are some based in Newark and Jersey City that organize music nights and cooking classes. Joining one of these groups could help you reconnect with your roots while making new friends. Would you like me to find more details on where these meetups happen?

Person: That would be great, thanks. Sometimes it’s a bit hard for me to meet people, especially after my divorce. I moved from another part of NJ but I still live close by. My kids tell me that getting out and socializing is important now that I don’t have a job to go to every day. Plus, being born in Puerto Rico, I miss speaking Spanish with locals, though I do that on the phone with my sister a lot.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re making a wonderful effort to stay connected, Anderson. I can suggest a few local organizations in New Jersey specifically for people of Puerto Rican heritage, and some of those groups organize regular meetings and cultural events where you can mingle and speak Spanish. There are also “divorced and single” social groups throughout NJ, where you might meet others who are going through similar experiences. If you want, I can provide links or contact details for these. Are you leaning more toward cultural activities or social support groups?

Person: Actually, a little of both sounds good. Since I’m not in the labor force and I don’t have to worry about job schedules anymore, I’ve got flexibility for whatever looks interesting. Maybe cooking classes or language meetups. Also, living in NJ, do you know any good spots for gentle hikes or outdoor walking groups? I like the fresh air, and it keeps me active, which is important now that I’m 74.

Chatbot: Absolutely! New Jersey has some fantastic parks with walking trails perfect for gentle hikes. The Watchung Reservation, South Mountain Reservation, and Liberty State Park are great options, and several walking clubs cater specifically to retirees or those who are not working. Many of these clubs welcome new members of all backgrounds and make a special effort to help people feel at home, especially those who may have gone through big life changes such as a divorce. I can look up walking groups that meet near your location. For cooking, there are NJ community centers that offer Puerto Rican cooking classes. Would you like the schedule for a specific area?

Person: I’d love that! Yes, schedules for both the walking groups and the cooking classes would be helpful. Also, I realize I’m lucky because being born in Puerto Rico makes me a U.S. citizen, so I don’t have to worry about the paperwork some of my friends talk about. My cousin recently moved to New Jersey, too, and she’s also interested in these activities, so maybe we could both join.

Chatbot: That’s fantastic! It’s great that you and your cousin can look into these activities together. I’ll search for walking groups that meet in your area and send the details your way, as well as upcoming Puerto Rican cooking classes in New Jersey. And yes, your citizenship status does make things a bit easier when joining local clubs or using community resources. If you’d like, I can also look for Spanish-speaking clubs or book groups, which could be another avenue for meeting like-minded people. Would you be interested in something like that as well?

Person: Actually, yes! Being a U.S. citizen born in Puerto Rico is something I value, and I always love a good book, especially if it’s related to culture or history. Since I’m divorced, I have more time to myself these days, and reading is something I can get lost in. And, you know, not working anymore gives me freedom to try new books or activities during the week and not just the weekend. Can you also recommend some local libraries or book clubs in NJ?

Chatbot: Absolutely, Anderson. New Jersey has an excellent library network, and many branches organize book clubs, some specifically geared toward older adults and retirees who, like you, aren’t in the labor force. Some even have book circles focused on cultural topics, including Puerto Rican and Latin American literature. The Newark Public Library, for example, frequently hosts multicultural events and reading groups. I’ll list nearby libraries and any book clubs I find. If you’d like, I can narrow it down by town or by any particular genre you enjoy most.

Person: Thank you! I appreciate your help. To recap, my name is Anderson Dixon, I was born in Puerto Rico on December 25, 1949, I’m not in the labor force, I live in New Jersey, and I’m divorced. I’m looking for gardening, walking, cooking, and book clubs to stay active and social. Let me know if you need any more information from me.

Chatbot: Thank you so much for clarifying, Anderson. With your information, I’ll gather the best options for community gardening, walking groups, Puerto Rican cooking classes, and book clubs in New Jersey. If you have any other questions, feel free to ask. I’m here whenever you need help finding new and enriching activities!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-73 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Hope you’re well.

Doctor: Good morning! I’m doing well—thanks for asking. What brings you in today?

Patient: I just wanted to check in about a few things. I feel like work has had me more run down than usual, and these last couple months my knees have really started to ache. I also wanted to get a bit of advice on sleep and just overall energy. Plus, I have a couple of questions about a medication I heard about on the radio recently that might help with focus.

Doctor: Let’s take it from the top—when did you start feeling this extra fatigue?

Patient: Hard to pin down, but I’d say probably since the winter started. You know, some days with the mail run, I’m on my feet most of the day, darting in and out of buildings, climbing steps, hauling package carts. Add to that the paperwork when it piles up afterward… It can be a long shift! By the time evening rolls around, I’m just spent.

Doctor: That is a lot of movement and activity. How long have you been doing delivery and mail runs?

Patient: About nine years now. Before that, I spent over two decades working inside in the same line—sorting, phones, all that. I started right out of high school, so I guess I’ve basically spent my whole life shuffling forms, paperwork, deliveries, or mail. I know most of the office buildings within a ten-mile radius by the back of my hand. You could ask pretty much anyone there and chances are I’ve brought something to their desk!

Doctor: That’s quite a career—always on the move. Given all the stairs and walking, the knee pain makes a little more sense. Is it worse at certain times of the day?

Patient: Yeah, mostly after I’ve finished with deliveries or, sometimes, at the end of the month when there’s more paperwork to do and I’m sitting at a desk longer. If I switch from being at the counter—sorting letters and packages—to making the rounds, or if I’m spending more time behind the wheel, I notice it more.

Doctor: Got it. Let me circle back to your energy issues: How many hours of sleep are you usually getting?

Patient: Maybe six or seven? It varies. Some evenings, I’ll go to bed by ten, but if I need to prep for the morning run or fill out reports, I might stay up past eleven. My sleep wasn’t always great, but it’s been tougher lately. And, not to blame it all on my age, but ever since I hit the big five-oh, I feel like I can’t recharge the way I used to. I celebrated my last milestone birthday a couple years ago—on a cold Tuesday in January, no less!

Doctor: That’s right, you have a winter birthday. I find some people find the darker months a little harder on energy and mood. When did you turn fifty?

Patient: That was back at the very start of 2023. I still remember it—my daughter made a fuss even though I said I didn’t want a big to-do. She got the grandkids to make me a cake to celebrate. We joke that I marked half a century just a week or so after everyone was putting away their holiday decorations.

Doctor: Half a century, and still sprinting from office to office, that’s impressive! Any family history of arthritis or other joint troubles?

Patient: My mom started having trouble with her hips around my age, and my uncle had to get knee surgery when he was in his late 60s. No one else that I know of. I’m planning to stick to walking instead of letting myself slow down completely.

Doctor: Are you taking anything currently for the pain or for your energy?

Patient: Just regular Tylenol or ibuprofen for the knees, usually on days when I’ve had to do extra sorting or deliveries. Haven’t tried any prescription medication for the tiredness. Sometimes I’ll have a bit too much coffee, but that seems to just make me jittery and give me heartburn. So I’ve cut back to one cup, mostly before I leave the house to start the rounds.

Doctor: Okay, good to know. And how’s your appetite been?

Patient: I’d say it’s about normal. Breakfast is either cereal or a couple slices of toast, and sometimes I’ll sneak in a donut if there are leftovers from the staff room. Lunch is usually a sandwich. If I’m busy, I’ll eat it in the van between stops. Evenings, I try to make something simple—my daughter insists I eat more greens, so she drops off groceries from time to time.

Doctor: Do you find you crave anything unusual or have you noticed any weight changes lately?

Patient: I think I lost a little weight around the holidays—with all the rushing to get packages out, there’s no time to be hungry! But after, things settled back in. No changes in what I crave, but I have had a few more sweets since my granddaughter got me hooked on those little chocolate-covered almonds.

Doctor: And about stress—has the paperwork been heavier lately? Anything outside of work causing more anxiety than usual?

Patient: A little, yes. The new software at work is causing headaches—I’m more used to paper ledgers than scanning and electronic delivery records. Plus, some of the younger staff make it look so easy, but learning all the codes and forms keeps me on my toes… and sometimes up at night. Outside of work, it’s mostly quiet. Main thing is keeping up with family—my daughter has her hands full with the kids since her husband works late.

Doctor: That sort of transition can definitely be challenging. You’ve been in the workforce since you finished school, is that right?

Patient: Sure am. I graduated in ’91, right at the height of all those big hair bands and slap bracelets—seems like a lifetime ago! Didn’t want to take on the debt for more school. Honestly, most of my friends from back then just wanted to get working, so I did the same. My first job was sorting at the big office in town, and then I moved to the field, hopping out of the van with the rest of the crew. It’s steady work, and I like that.

Doctor: Looks like you’re not one to shy away from hard work. Has anyone at home noticed you’ve been more tired, or is it mostly something you’ve noticed?

Patient: My daughter made a comment about me dozing off on the couch after dinner. She says I remind her of my dad—he’d fall asleep sitting up with the TV on. I chalked it up to early mornings and being on my feet all day. But yes, I do find it harder to keep up with my granddaughter after work.

Doctor: Any new symptoms, like chest pain, shortness of breath, or swelling in your legs?

Patient: No chest pain. Occasionally I get out of breath if I have to deliver a heavy parcel up an office stairwell, but it goes away with rest. No swelling either; just sore knees, especially if the weather turns cold or damp. I guess running up and down stairs delivers more than just packages!

Doctor: It definitely takes a toll over time. When was your last check-up?

Patient: I came in for my annual last year, right around the time everyone was talking about resolutions. I remember because my birthday falls right in that lull after the New Year’s rush, when you’re still catching up from the holidays and the workplace is still recovering from December’s chaos.

Doctor: Did you get any tests done then?

Patient: Bloodwork, cholesterol, blood pressure—the usual. My daughter insisted I start keeping track of those, since my numbers were a bit on the high side a couple of years ago. Everything was mostly fine; I remember your nurse saying I had a couple of things a point or two outside the range but nothing worrying.

Doctor: We’ll want to repeat those—sometimes, joint pain and fatigue can be linked to thyroid or metabolic issues. Would you be willing to schedule a blood test after this?

Patient: Yes, sure. I’d rather nip anything in the bud so I can keep working. The office would fall to pieces if I missed too many days—who else is going to keep the delivery logs tidy?

Doctor: Well, with your experience, I imagine you’re the backbone of the place! Do you have any issues with memory or staying organized?

Patient: I’m usually great with schedules—after this many years, I know which package goes where without even looking. But with new tech, I sometimes forget passwords or where I save files. That new inventory scanner does my head in. It’s much easier to keep a logbook. My daughter keeps nudging me to use the notepad app, though.

Doctor: It sounds like your strengths are definitely in keeping things orderly and running smoothly in person. Let’s keep an eye on that memory stuff, but some adjustment is normal. Now, you mentioned a medication you heard could help with focus?

Patient: Yes, I was listening to the car radio on a route and there was an ad about some kind of medication for people struggling with “brain fog.” It got me curious, since sometimes midway through updating forms, I lose track of numbers or names. I haven’t tried anything besides coffee, but I wondered if there was something else I should ask about?

Doctor: Great question. Many of those ads are for prescription medications, some used off-label. They aren’t usually indicated for occasional forgetfulness, and they can have side effects. We should first consider factors like sleep, stress, and underlying medical conditions. Once we rule those out, we can talk about next steps.

Patient: That’s fair. I’d rather avoid side effects. I guess my main goal is keeping sharp for as long as I’m still clocking in every morning, sorting parcels, or filling out the endless delivery slips.

Doctor: It might help to do some mental exercises, crosswords, or online training. These are much safer places to start. And make sure your diet includes enough omega-3s and vitamins, and you’re getting your daily steps—which I’m sure you get plenty of!

Patient: Oh, trust me, I more than meet my quota on the step counter each day. Maybe that’s why my shoes wear out so fast!

Doctor: It sounds like you’ve been walking everywhere your whole life. Do you ever think about retirement, or do you plan to keep working a while longer?

Patient: I’ve thought about it—a lot of folks are counting down, but after nearly three decades of waking up with a purpose, I don’t know what I’d do. Maybe I’ll finally take that tour down Route 66 or revisit where my parents used to take me when I was a kid, back when you could travel coast to coast without showing any extra paperwork or applications.

Doctor: So you’ve never lived outside the country? 

Patient: Never left, unless you count that school trip to Niagara Falls—still on our side, though! All my family has always been here, right down to my grandkids now.

Doctor: Thank you, that gives me a little more health history context. Is there anything else you wanted to discuss today?

Patient: Maybe just one thing—I saw a flyer in our staff room about bone scans, and since so many of the women in my family have had some issues with bone strength past fifty, I wondered if I should bring it up?

Doctor: That’s very prudent. You’re in the age group where we usually recommend a DEXA scan, especially with family history. We can order one for you. Are you still getting regular mammograms as well?

Patient: Every two years. I last had one last spring, so I’m due again soon. My daughter won’t let me forget about those appointments—she’s a stickler!

Doctor: That’s excellent. Keeping up with those screenings is important. Any other questions or things on your mind?

Patient: I’m pretty good for now. As long as I can keep working, keep up with the grandkids, and stay healthy enough to enjoy the cold-weather birthdays—always seems like it’s snowing on my cake!—I think I’ll be all right.

Doctor: You definitely have the right attitude. Let’s order that bloodwork, look into the bone scan, and work on a plan to ease those knee aches. I’ll have our nurse bring you the forms on your way out.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate it!

Doctor: My pleasure. Take care, and let us know if anything changes before your results come in.

Patient: Will do—off to brave the mail route. Have a great day!

Doctor: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-14 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! Thanks for hopping on the call, I know my schedule’s a little unpredictable lately.

Other: No worries at all! I’m glad we could set this up today. How have things been on your end?

Target: Busy, as usual. I’ve been pulled in a few different directions the last couple of weeks, working remotely for the time being. But, you know, that comes with the territory.

Other: It certainly does. I remember you mentioned last time that you were waiting to hear about some new orders, has there been any update?

Target: Nothing definite yet. Right now it’s all about hurry up and wait, which, if I’m honest, I’m starting to get pretty good at. But at least it means I’m getting more time at home. Not something I usually get, so my other half and I are making the most of it.

Other: That’s a silver lining! Do you find it easy to balance your responsibilities with that extra time at home, or is it an adjustment?

Target: It’s definitely been an adjustment. My wife and I have been married a while and she’s used to the constant shifting schedule, but it’s still odd for us. I’m here for breakfast and then sometimes suddenly I’m not, if there’s a call. But she rolls with it.

Other: Sounds like you both have a strong partnership to make it work with all the unpredictability. Out of curiosity, do you ever get to actually spend time exploring around the city, or is it mostly home and work?

Target: I try to get out when I can. My favorite is walking along the National Mall, especially after dinner. Makes me feel connected to the city, seeing all those monuments lit up. My place isn’t far from the museums or the Capitol, so it’s easy to pop out for a quick walk after work hours.

Other: That sounds wonderful. I haven’t visited in a couple of years, but those monuments at night are something special. Does it help you unwind?

Target: Definitely. It’s a nice change of pace from the high-intensity days. My wife jokes that I know more about the city’s history than anyone who’s lived here their entire life. Comes with the job, I guess. Plus, after my four years studying history, I can’t help but be a bit of a nerd about it.

Other: You studied history? That does seem fitting, given your appreciation for the city’s past. Where did you go to school?

Target: Just up north, not too far. Four years of lectures, late-night study sessions, and a capstone seminar I thought would never end! But I earned my stripes. The diploma’s still on the wall, reminding me of all the papers I had to write.

Other: It’s always good to keep those reminders close, makes all that hard work feel worth it. So, how has your academic background intersected with your current work?

Target: It’s come in handy more than you’d think. Interpreting old documents, understanding the context behind various international protocols—I pull from that background a lot. Plus, it gives me something to talk about when I’m not knee-deep in paperwork or out training.

Other: I bet it does! And your line of work keeps you on your toes, from what I gather. Last time, you mentioned you might be on call for certain weekends this month. Is that still the case?

Target: Yeah, still true. Some weeks I’m told to stand by, and I’m at home by the phone, making sure my uniform is pressed just in case. The unpredictability can be a challenge, but it keeps things interesting.

Other: And does your team face that same unpredictability, or is it just your role?

Target: Most of us do, though some are at the main building more regularly. I’ve got a couple of younger folks just out of training working with me—really sharp, eager to do their part. Reminds me of when I started out.

Other: Do they ever ask for advice from someone more seasoned?

Target: All the time! Sometimes I feel like the resident old-timer, even though I’m not nearly as crusty as the real veterans. I think they appreciate that I can relate, especially because I came in straight after college, too. I’ve stood where they stand.

Other: It’s great that you can offer that perspective. Having a mentor in the early stages makes a big difference. Do you see yourself staying in this field for the long haul?

Target: That’s something my wife and I talk about a lot. There are days I imagine life on a more predictable schedule, but there’s something about this job—the sense of duty, the camaraderie—that’s hard to let go of. And she’s as steady as they come. We’ve gotten through long stretches apart before, which isn’t easy on any couple.

Other: That’s impressive. Maintaining a strong relationship despite the distance is no small feat. How do you two stay connected when your schedule takes you away?

Target: Lots of late-night calls and messages, care packages, and inside jokes. She’s always got a way to make me laugh, even from miles away. After all these years, we have our rhythm.

Other: That’s beautiful. It’s always inspiring to hear couples support each other through the ups and downs of demanding careers. With your current setup—remote work for now—do you think this is temporary?

Target: It’ll probably change by next quarter. I get updates about new postings or assignments every few weeks. Sometimes, I’m packing a bag with an hour’s notice. So, we stay flexible. No plans set in stone until there’s an official word.

Other: Flexibility seems to be the name of the game. Is it hard to keep your professional network strong with all the moving parts?

Target: Honestly, it can be. I’ve met contacts from all over—some I’ve only ever spoken to virtually, others I’ve trained with on the field. But being based so close to the Pentagon means I’ve got a few regulars in my circle, people with backgrounds like mine.

Other: That’s a unique environment, for sure. And your administrative team, do they mostly work out of the main offices or do some work remotely as well?

Target: It’s a mix. Some colleagues are at headquarters daily, others, like me, are working from home and are ready to pick up and go at a moment’s notice. It’s a fluid situation, and everyone is prepared for change.

Other: Sounds like you’ve adapted really well to the uncertainty. Is there anything in particular you do to stay grounded outside of work?

Target: I try to keep a routine as much as possible. Early morning runs around the Tidal Basin—can’t beat those cherry blossoms. I also read as much as I can, and I’ve picked up cooking more lately since my schedule gives me the chance to make dinner at home with my wife.

Other: That’s a great way to wind down. Is there a favorite dish the two of you enjoy making together?

Target: She loves it when I make her my specialty—shrimp and grits. It’s something I picked up back in school, and now it’s our little tradition after a long week.

Other: That sounds delicious! With all these routines and traditions, do you feel like you have enough of a separation between work and home life?

Target: Some days more than others. It helps that we live in a building with lots of other federal employees; everyone understands odd hours and sudden changes. Makes the transitions easier.

Other: I can imagine. Having a community that gets it must make a big difference.

Target: It sure does. And I’ll admit, it’s nice to walk outside and see the Washington Monument in the distance—it’s a constant reminder of what I’m here for.

Other: Hah, I can see how that would put things in perspective! So, before we dive into today’s agenda, anything new coming up personally or professionally?

Target: Well, my wife’s birthday is coming up—she doesn’t know it yet, but I managed to get us reservations at her favorite spot in Georgetown. On the professional side, it’s status quo for now, though that could change with the next email, as always.

Other: A birthday dinner in Georgetown sounds lovely—I’m sure she’ll love the surprise.

Target: I hope so. She deserves it after putting up with my weird hours and last-minute calls.

Other: Absolutely! Okay, let’s jump into today’s discussion. The project brief mentioned you’d be handling oversight for the new implementation—can you walk me through where things stand?

Target: Of course. We’re in the initial assessment phase. I was able to review the preliminary documentation on Tuesday. I’ve flagged a couple of issues for compliance and have recommendations ready, but I’ll need to confer with the team at Fort Belvoir before making final suggestions.

Other: Got it. Do you anticipate any major roadblocks, or do you think it will progress smoothly?

Target: It’s the kind of project that can surprise you, so I’m cautious. Past experience tells me not to count on anything proceeding exactly as planned. But I think we’re in good shape. That college background in research comes in handy when you’re sorting through the fine print.

Other: I can imagine! It’s clear you’re thorough. Out of curiosity, did you ever consider a different path, say, staying in academia or shifting entirely into analysis?

Target: It crossed my mind, especially in those last years of university when I was reading more than sleeping. But ultimately, I’m drawn to roles where there’s a more direct impact and a strong sense of team. Now, it’s rewarding to be able to apply what I learned both in and out of the classroom.

Other: I hear that from a lot of folks who transition from university straight into federal service. It sounds like the right fit for your personality and values.

Target: I’d say so. It’s not the easiest path, but it’s been fulfilling. My family’s made some sacrifices for me to stay committed, but having a partner who gets it—who keeps everything steady at home when I can’t be—makes all the difference.

Other: That support is truly invaluable. From your experience, do you have any advice for someone starting out in a similar field?

Target: Be adaptable, and value your team. The world can change overnight—literally, sometimes. And take time to build relationships, both inside and outside your unit. It’s something you can start doing in college—join clubs, make friends across disciplines, get used to working with people from every walk of life.

Other: That’s solid advice—thanks for sharing it. What’s the next step after today’s meeting for you?

Target: I need to finalize my notes and check in with my supervisor before COB. Then, I’ll try to squeeze in a call with a colleague stationed overseas, followed by a walk to clear my head. If all goes to plan, I’ll be home early enough to help with dinner prep.

Other: Sounds like a full day. I appreciate you making time for this meeting, especially with everything you have on your plate.

Target: No problem at all. Happy to help however I can.

Other: Before we wrap up, is there anything you need from my end?

Target: Just the updated project timeline when you have it. And, if you need any recommendations for restaurants or things to do in the city before your next trip out here, let me know.

Other: Will do—thank you. Enjoy your walk later, and I hope the rest of your week goes smoothly, with as few unexpected surprises as possible.

Target: Appreciate it. Take care and talk soon.

Other: Take care!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_64 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Drywasher

A drywasher is a common desert mining tool for gold mining.

A drywasher is like a highbanker, since it uses a motor and a form of sluice, but it has no need for water. It drywasher operates by the use of air.  By forcing air to flow up through the material as it moves down the sluice, the heavier materials, like gold, will stay at the bottom and get trapped by the riffles while the lighter materials will flow up and over the riffles or be blown away.  The lighter material that is not blown away will slowly flow down the sluice and fall out the end of the sluice.

Drywasher - A mechanical apparatus used for separating free particles of placer gold from dry sediments. Dry placers represent a major portion of all alluvial gold deposits around the globe. Extreme aridity in southern hemispheric regions of the planet causes a slower rate of erosion on placer deposits than if rainfall were plentiful and regional watersheds were hydrologically active. This absence of water directly correlates to the low moisture content of alluvial sediments and the short distance gold moves from its hardrock source. A drywasher works on the principle of gravity separation. Since gold, at 19.1 specific gravity, is much heavier than most other minerals found in local sediments, a facsimile of certain natural conditions (which would involve the use of water, if it were available) can be mechanically reproduced with a simple machine using dry air instead of water as the medium of separation. The process of excavating dry, compacted sediments will often loosen or unpack them. Then, as long as the material is sufficiently dry, these gravels can be processed with a drywasher in a relatively efficient manner.

A drywasher was also known, at one time, as a Mexican air jig. To use a drywasher, first, one must determine if the raw material is dry enough to be efficiently processed. Once the machine is set up and stabilized, using a shovel, the dirt, clay, sand, gravel, etc. is loaded onto the uppermost part of the device — the screen, or "grizzly". Sediments classified by the grizzly, drop into another part of the apparatus known as "the hopper". Once the machine is activated, the finer, gold-bearing material travels down an inclined, vibrating chute, passing over a series of "riffles" in a recovery tray. This process varies slightly from machine to machine. Heavier minerals, principally gold and fine-grained black sands (various iron minerals), are separated from the paydirt and reconcentrated  by this means. Panning, or some other final separation process, comes afterwards.

The first machines were, in all likelihood, operated manually. A simple one can be constructed using a wooden framework, a hopper, a recovery tray, bellows, lever, and cord. Before the advent of modern metal screening material, sorting of gravels into smaller particles might have been done by hand. Such elimination of larger rocks aids in separating gold from dry, auriferous sediments to be processed, consequently, any modern "puffer-belly" could be outfitted with a screen, or "grizzly" for sorting the dry gravels into two sizes.

References 

.
.  Date unknown. Republished in electronic format with foreword by the ICMJ's Prospecting and Mining Journal.

Gold mining
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_80 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Interphalangeal joints of the hand

The interphalangeal joints of the hand are the hinge joints between the phalanges of the fingers that provide flexion towards the palm of the hand.
 
There are two sets in each finger (except in the thumb, which has only one joint):
 "proximal interphalangeal joints" (PIJ or PIP), those between the first (also called proximal) and second (intermediate) phalanges
 "distal interphalangeal joints" (DIJ or DIP), those between the second (intermediate) and third (distal) phalanges

Anatomically, the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints are very similar. There are some minor differences in how the palmar plates are attached proximally and in the segmentation of the flexor tendon sheath, but the major differences are the smaller dimension and reduced mobility of the distal joint.

Joint structure

The PIP joint exhibits great lateral stability. Its transverse diameter is greater than its antero-posterior diameter and its thick collateral ligaments are tight in all positions during flexion, contrary to those in the metacarpophalangeal joint.

Dorsal structures
The capsule, extensor tendon, and skin are very thin and lax dorsally, allowing for both phalanx bones to flex more than 100° until the base of the middle phalanx makes contact with the condylar notch of the proximal phalanx.

At the level of the PIP joint the extensor mechanism splits into three bands. The central slip attaches to the dorsal tubercle of the middle phalanx near the PIP joint. The pair of lateral bands, to which contribute the extensor tendons, continue past the PIP joint dorsally to the joint axis. These three bands are united by a transverse retinacular ligament, which runs from the palmar border of the lateral band to the flexor sheath at the level of the joint and which prevents dorsal displacement of that lateral band. On the palmar side of the joint axis of motion, lies the oblique retinacular ligament [of Landsmeer] which stretches from the flexor sheath over the proximal phalanx to the terminal extensor tendon. In extension, the oblique ligament prevents passive DIP flexion and PIP hyperextension as it tightens and pulls the terminal extensor tendon proximally.

Palmar structures
In contrast, on the palmar side, a thick ligament prevents hyperextension. The distal part of the palmar ligament, called the palmar plate, is  thick and has a fibrocartilaginous structure. The presence of chondroitin and keratan sulfate in the dorsal and palmar plates is important in resisting compression forces against the condyles of the proximal phalanx. Together these structures protect the tendons passing in front and behind the joint. These tendons can sustain traction forces thanks to their collagen fibers.

Palmar ligament

The palmar ligament is thinner and more flexible in its central-proximal part. On both sides it is reinforced by the so-called check rein ligaments. The accessory collateral ligaments (ACL) originate at the proximal phalanx and are inserted distally at the base of the middle phalanx below the collateral ligaments.

The accessory ligament and the proximal margin of the palmar plate are flexible and fold back upon themselves during flexion. The flexor tendon sheaths are firmly attached to the proximal and middle phalanges by annular pulleys A2 and A4, while the A3 pulley and the proximal fibres of the C1 ligament attach the sheaths to the mobile volar ligament at the PIP joint. During flexion this arrangement produces a space at the neck of the proximal phalanx which is filled by the folding palmar plate.

The palmar plate is supported by a ligament on either side of the joint called the collateral ligaments, which prevent deviation of the joint from side to side. The ligaments can partially or fully tear and can avulse with a small fracture fragment when the finger is forced backwards into hyperextension. This is called a "palmar plate, or volar plate injury".

The palmar plate forms a semi-rigid floor and the collateral ligaments the walls in a...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-66 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hey, thanks for jumping on the call, I appreciate you making the time. I know it’s not every day you get a request from someone on the eleventh story of Crystal Dr.

Other: No worries at all! Honestly, it’s nice to connect with folks outside my own office. So, you’re based over in Arlington, right?

Target: Yup, I’m right on Crystal—our building’s pretty easy to spot, we’re just across from HQ2. Mail comes right to 2231, eleventh-level, so can’t miss it.

Other: Got it, I’ll keep that in mind for any deliveries. So, you said you needed some advice on optimizing your dev workflow? What kind of stack are you working on?

Target: It’s a mix. Since I landed a spot here as a coder, I mostly handle backend stuff, Python with some Node for the web apps, and a lot of SQL wrangling. Basically, I’m paid to puzzle things out and write logic all day.

Other: Ah, one of those types who finds beauty in clean code! Can relate—I started as a developer too. Are you pretty deep into the math side or more strictly web?

Target: I’d say I’m on the math-y side. Love working through algorithm tweaks, logic puzzles, that classic programmer stuff—you know, the sort of thing people only enjoy if they’re wired a certain way, I guess. I’m the guy they come to when a script refuses to behave.

Other: Respect! Out of curiosity, how long have you been at this game? Not that I’m trying to guess your age or anything.

Target: Oh man, it’s coming up on two decades since I got into programming. Started messing with code before I could drive. I still remember celebrating my 18th back in '03 with a debugger up on screen. Now I’m staring down my thirty-ninth, which lands me right on the 23rd day of October every year.

Other: Nice, an October birthday. Do you usually get Halloween parties blending into your celebrations?

Target: More like a double-dose of costumes and cake. Friends used to joke about my “spooky season” cake day. Honestly, turning 39 soon still feels wild.

Other: Well, happy early birthday then, Mr. October 23rd! And you’re happily coding away full-time now, right?

Target: Oh yeah, civilian workforce through and through. No uniforms for me. My day job just involves a hoodie and a bunch of monitors—nine to five, paid for my brain and my keyboard skills.

Other: That’s a lot of hours in front of the screen! So, you’re handling complex logic for a living, slinging code, and based in VA—sounds like a nice setup.

Target: Virginia life is all right. I get my fill of city buzz in Arlington but can still sneak over to the parks when the staring at terminal windows gets too much. Plus, being just across the bridge from DC has perks and headaches, depending on the day.

Other: Yeah, that area’s intense, but the tech scene’s thriving. By the way, do you work solo, or is there a team of you up on that eleventh floor?

Target: I’ve got a good crew here—six of us in total, all programming guys and one gal from QA. It’s a pretty even split between code monkeys and data wranglers.

Other: Good ratio. What’s the toughest challenge your team faced lately?

Target: We ran into a gnarly database issue a few weeks ago. Took all hands to squint at the logs—I may have clocked over 12 hours that day at my desk on Crystal, lucky the elevators run late.

Other: Oof, those crunch moments. Good thing you don’t have to commute far. Do you live nearby or a bit out?

Target: I’m local for sure. My place is smack in the neighborhood. It’s weird to have your work and home so close—sometimes when the mailman drops something at the office, I’ll see him again three blocks later at my building.

Other: That’s convenient, though! And probably helps not having to fight I-66 every morning.

Target: Exactly. Some of the other guys trek in from Fairfax or even down from Maryland, but I’m spoiled. The only real traffic I deal with is in the lobby on busy mornings.

Other: Can’t beat that! And you mentioned being a “guy”—so you mostly work with other men in the office? Or is it a mix?

Target: Yeah, it’s mostly dudes here, me included. Our tech floor sometimes feels like a chess club, though our QA keeps us in line. I’m the programmer who usually ends up with the weirdest bugs to fix.

Other: Every team needs that go-to fixer. Speaking of which, could you walk me through how your team documents code changes, especially given your math-heavy focus?

Target: Sure thing. We use a Github workflow—branch per feature, strict PR reviews. I try to log everything I touch, since I’m at the heart of the backend logic. Our tickets tend to get peppered with comments, mostly from yours truly, since, as I said, I’m paid to think in code.

Other: That’s thorough. Given your position, would you say you lean more toward backend or data science, or is it strictly programming logic?

Target: I’m happy sticking as a backend builder, really. I don’t toy much with models or predictions, but give me an API and a set of tables, and I’m happy as can be. Whenever something breaks, people know to call me before they email support.

Other: Sounds like you’re pretty indispensable over there! With your years in the industry—starting from early 2000s to now—what’s the biggest change you’ve noticed?

Target: Oh, seeing the leap from hand-coded HTML on dial-up to modern CI/CD pipelines is wild. Back when I was messing around on the family PC, zip codes still needed to be typed out and you’d get mail mixed up if the floor wasn’t clear. Now, everything’s digital, except the odd package I still need to pick up in person at Crystal Dr.

Other: Times change! Last question: anything that would make your work life at your Arlington spot easier?

Target: More coffee, probably! Or someone to fix the elevators. Seriously, though, a better snack selection on the eleventh wouldn’t hurt, but that’s just the guy in me craving chips at 3 pm.

Other: I hear that. Thanks again for your time, Mr. “Programmer on Crystal Dr.”—I’ll send that workflow template your way today.

Target: Awesome, much appreciated! And if you’re ever in VA, you know where to find me: 2231, up on eleven.

Other: I’ll keep that in mind. Enjoy the rest of your day!

Target: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_74 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Marine canvas

Marine canvas refers to a varied array of fabrics used in the fabrication and production of awnings, covers, tarps, sunshades, signs and banners for the advertising, boating, trucking, tenting, structural and medical industries. The term "marine canvas" is also used more narrowly to refer specially to boat cover products.  

When referring to materials "marine canvas" is a catch–all phrase that covers hundreds of materials, for instance: acrylics, PVC coated polyester, silicone treated substrates and many coated meshes suitable for outdoor use. Most ¨marine canvas¨ materials offer good UV resistance, and, to some extent, water resistance or waterproofness.  Two of the most popular fabrics used today are solution dyed acrylic canvas such as Sunbrella and PVC coated woven polyester such as Stamoid. Such synthetic fabrics can last for many years before deteriorating due to UV radiation. Marine canvas is typically used to protect materials susceptible to UV damage like varnished wood, non-UV resistant plastics, and outdoor stored sails. Other boat specific uses include hatch covers for interior sun protection and winch covers for protection from deterioration and fouling due to seawater, rain, and dirt exposure. 

Products often referred to as "marine canvas" and made from "marine canvas" include biminis, dodgers, and similar enclosures that protect some part or section of a boat from the weather and/or to create a more comfortable environment for the boat user(s). These types of products can also include additional features such as transparent windows, lights, or storage. In some instances, these covers are also created purely, or in part, for aesthetic purposes.

The design of these covers requires the fabricator to create a custom pattern for the frame or object being covered. This can be done via careful measurement, but more commonly the finial material or a disposable templating material (typically paper or plastic sheet) is laid directly over the frame or object and then marked. Marks for cuts, seams, fasteners and chafe protection are applied to the pattern, which is then either used directly or transferred to the finial material from the templating material.

The thread used to stitch modern marine type canvas is typically made from Polyester or PTFE with sizes ranging from #69, #92, #138. Polyester thread is widely available and relatively low cost compared to PTFE, but PTFE thread has become increasingly popular due to its far greater resistance to ultraviolet radiation a chemical decomposition in a marine environment. This increased durability also adds lifespan as thus cost effectiveness to the finial product helping to offset the initially higher cost. Nylon and natural fiber thread is rarely used as neither have UV resistance comparable to Polyester or PTFE.

See also
 Sail

References

Sailboat components
Maritime culture
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_165 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Halictus rubicundus

Halictus rubicundus, the orange-legged furrow bee, is a species of sweat bee found throughout the Northern Hemisphere.  H. rubicundus entered North America from the Old World during one of two main invasions of Halictus subgenera. These invasions likely occurred via the Bering land bridge at times of low sea level during the Pleistocene epoch.

The species exhibits different social behaviors depending on climate: it is a solitary species in high elevations or latitudes where the season is short, but eusocial in other areas. Often, solitary and eusocial colonies appear simultaneously in the same population. These sweat bees are extensively studied for their variability in social behavior, which has become a model for social plasticity. This variability has contributed to an understanding of evolution of social behavior.

Taxonomy and phylogeny 
Halictus rubicundus is a species of Hymenoptera in the bee family Halictidae, more commonly known as sweat bees. This common name comes from their frequent attraction to perspiration. This species exhibits polymorphic social behavior that varies with environmental conditions, and other species of the family Halictidae are thought to have similar variability in sociality.

Description and identification 

Many members of the family Halictidae are metallic in appearance but Halictus rubicundus are not metallic. Females are about 1 cm in body length and brown in color, with fine white bands across the apices of the abdominal segments, and rusty-orange legs. The males are more slender, with longer antennae and yellow markings on the face and legs; they can be distinguished from males of similar species by the absence of an apical hair band on the terminal abdominal segment. In social populations, females of the first brood, mostly workers, can be recognized because they are typically slightly smaller than the foundresses.

Distribution and habitat 
H. rubicundus has one of the widest natural distributions of any bee species, occurring throughout the temperate regions of the Holarctic region. It is believed that differences in climate across this vast range actually contribute to variation in their social behavior. Those living in more northern geographic locations or higher elevations are often more solitary in behavior than those in southern areas or lower elevations. This difference is widely studied, as it provides insight into the evolutionary transition from solitary to social behavior. Nests are haplometrotic, meaning that they are founded by single females. Social populations typically are found in warmer regions, such as Kansas, while solitary populations nest in cooler regions, such as Colorado, Scotland and Alaska. In intermediate regions, such as New York and southern Ontario, both social and solitary behavior can be found in different nests of the same population. The strictly solitary phenotype is expressed as a response to colder environments because the active season is not long enough to produce two broods.

Nesting 

Both solitary and eusocial types of the species typically excavate nest burrows in southward facing slopes in isolated areas, consisting of sand or soil. This slope maximizes the heat absorption from the sun, making the nest warmer. The nests with a favorable slope were thought to increase foraging efficiency of adults and development of larvae with a stable thermal environment.

Stones or areas of vegetation are usually found near nest entrances, likely because of the heating properties of these objects. For each offspring, a females constructs a small underground chamber (a "brood cell"), into which she deposits several loads of pollen mixed with nectar, which is then formed into a ball; a single egg is laid upon this pollen mass, and then the brood cell is sealed. The female repeats the process with other brood cells, going progressively deeper into the soil. A higher temperature increases the rate at which the larvae develop to maturity, as thermal...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_272 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Barium fluoride

Barium fluoride is an inorganic compound with the formula . It is a colorless solid that occurs in nature as the rare mineral frankdicksonite. Under standard conditions it adopts the fluorite structure and at high pressure the  structure. Like , it is resilient to and insoluble in water.

Above ca. 500 °C,  is corroded by moisture, but in dry environments it can be used up to 800 °C. Prolonged exposure to moisture degrades transmission in the vacuum UV range. It is less resistant to water than calcium fluoride, but it is the most resistant of all the optical fluorides to high-energy radiation, though its far ultraviolet transmittance is lower than that of the other fluorides. It is quite hard, very sensitive to thermal shock and fractures quite easily.

Optical properties
Barium fluoride is transparent from the ultraviolet to the infrared, from 150 to 200 nm to 11–11.5 µm. It is used in windows for infrared spectroscopy, in particular in the field of fuel oil analysis. Its transmittance at 200 nm is relatively low (0.60), but at 500 nm it goes up to 0.96–0.97 and stays at that level until 9 µm, then it starts falling off (0.85 for 10 µm and 0.42 for 12 µm). The refractive index is about 1.46 from 700 nm to 5 µm.

Barium fluoride is also a common, very fast (one of the fastest) scintillators for the detection of X-rays, gamma rays or other high energy particles. One of its applications is the detection of 511 keV gamma photons in positron emission tomography. It responds also to alpha and beta particles, but, unlike most scintillators, it does not emit ultraviolet light. It can be also used for detection of high-energy (10–150 MeV) neutrons, using pulse shape discrimination techniques to separate them from simultaneously occurring gamma photons.

Barium fluoride is used as a preopacifying agent and in enamel and glazing frits production. Its other use is in the production of welding agents (an additive to some fluxes, a component of coatings for welding rods and in welding powders). It is also used in metallurgy, as a molten bath for refining aluminium.

Gas phase structure
In the vapor phase the  molecule is non-linear with an F-Ba-F angle of approximately 108°. Its nonlinearity violates VSEPR theory. Ab initio calculations indicate that contributions from d orbitals in the shell below the valence shell are responsible. Another proposal is that polarisation of the electron core of the barium atom creates an approximately tetrahedral distribution of charge that interacts with the Ba-F bonds.

References

Cited sources

External links
MSDS at Oxford University 

Barium compounds
Fluorides
Optical materials
Phosphors and scintillators
Crystals
Alkaline earth metal halides
Fluorite crystal structure
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_266 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Hybrid disc

A hybrid disc is a disc, such as CD-ROM or Blu-ray, which contains multiple types of data which can be used differently on different devices. These include CD-ROM music albums containing video files viewable on a personal computer, or feature film Blu-rays containing interactive content when used with a PlayStation 3 game console.

Multiple file systems
A hybrid disc is an optical disc that has multiple file systems installed on it, typically ISO 9660 and HFS+ (or HFS on older discs). One reason for the hybrid format is the restrictions of ISO 9660 (filenames of only eight characters, and a maximum depths of eight directories, similar to the Microsoft FAT file system). Another key factor is that ISO 9660 does not support resource forks, which is critical to the classic Mac OS' software design (OS X or macOS removed much of the need for resource forks in application design). Companies that released products for both DOS (later Windows) and the classic Mac OS (later macOS) could release a CD containing software for both, natively readable on either system. Data files can even be shared by both partitions, while keeping the platform specific data separate. In a "true" (or "shared") hybrid HFS filesystem, files common to both the ISO 9660 and HFS partitions are stored only once, with the ISO 9660 partition pointing to file content in the HFS area (or vice versa). Blizzard Entertainment has released most of their computer games on hybrid CDs. By default, Mac OS 9 and macOS burn hybrid discs.

An ISO 9660/HFS hybrid disc has an ISO 9660 primary volume descriptor, which makes it a valid ISO 9660 disc, and an Apple partition. It may also have an Apple partition map, although this is not necessary. The ISO 9660 portion of the disc can co-exist with an Apple partition because the header areas which define the contents of the disc are located in different places. The ISO 9660 primary volume descriptor begins 32,768 bytes (32 KB) into the disc. If present, an Apple partition map begins 512 bytes into the disc; if there is no partition map, the header for an Apple HFS partition (known as a Master Directory Block, or MDB) begins 1,024 bytes into the disc.

Audio CD with added data tracks
Hybrid-CD also refers to an audio CD which also includes a data track storing MP3 (or other digital audio compression format) copy of those CD-DA tracks. Before the introduction and subsequent popularization of iTunes and the iPod, such discs were popular for sharing music on compact disc without requiring the recipient to extract and encode the CD-DA themselves — a technical and perhaps time-consuming process on older computing hardware. However, with the advent of faster computing hardware and vastly simplified automated extraction and encoding tools (e.g. iTunes, Rhythmbox, etc.) and the lack of an automated hybrid feature in that very same software, popularity of such hybrid CD has subsequently declined. However, such hybrid discs do remain in a commercial setting as a digital rights management enforcement technique, where encrypted compressed copies of the digital audio are provided with proprietary software for listening in a computer disc drive, while the CD-DA is included for playback in stand-alone CD players.

Hybrid Blu-rays
In recent years, some Blu-rays have been released as Hybrid discs, demonstrating its compatibility with the PlayStation 3 console, which uses BD as its primary disc format. These discs generally include a movie or feature that can be played on any Blu-ray Disc player and playable content which is accessible when run on a PlayStation 3 console. Examples include Tekken Hybrid, Macross Frontier: Itsuwari no Utahime and Lagrange: The Flower of Rin-ne -Kamogawa Days-.

See also
 Universal binary

References

Audio storage
Compact disc
Consumer electronics
Disk file systems
Rotating disc computer storage media
Video storage
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-3 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doc. Thanks for seeing me before work today—my office hours keep getting tighter.

Doctor: Of course, happy to fit you in. What brings you in today?

Patient: Lately, I’ve been getting these headaches by the end of the day. I spend most of my day looking at computer screens, doing loan paperwork and applications and answering phones, so maybe it’s a strain thing? Also, since I started handling more client interviews, I feel like the stress’s getting worse.

Doctor: That does sound uncomfortable. How long have you been having these headaches? And when do they usually start during your workday?

Patient: I’d say… it started a couple of months ago? Usually, I’m fine until after lunch or so, then the pressure builds up. By the time I’m handing off the last stack of loan requests or compiling data, my head’s pounding.

Doctor: Do you take anything for the pain? Any over-the-counter medications?

Patient: Sometimes some Advil if it gets bad, but I try not to pop too many. Just wanted to see if it’s something I should be worried about, since I need to stay on top of things at my job.

Doctor: Absolutely. Work in the admin field could mean a lot of sitting, using computers, and focusing—easy for tension and strain to build. Have you noticed if the headaches come on more after screen time versus when you’re up and about in the office?

Patient: Yeah, definitely more when I’m glued to the monitor. I’m always typing up mortgage forms, reviewing client credit reports, and double-checking those account numbers. Not much walking around until it’s break time.

Doctor: And outside of work, how has your stress level been? Any changes in your home life?

Patient: Not much outside of the usual. Get home, maybe watch something or read. Sometimes I have to call my folks—my dad always teases me that “the sunshine’s getting to me” out here in fl, but I honestly spend most daylight hours indoors.

Doctor: Just to check, you do live here in the state?

Patient: Yup, been down here in Florida for about a decade now. Moved around a bit but settled here for work.

Doctor: Great, that’s helpful. Can I confirm your birthdate for the records as well?

Patient: Sure. I was born the last day of March, back in ’82. Can’t believe I’ll hit another milestone next year.

Doctor: Thank you. Now, I see in your chart you’re employed in some sort of clerical field—is that right?

Patient: That’s right, I’m a loan clerk, mostly handling client interviews these days and support-type duties at the front desk. It’s a civilian gig at the bank branch, so pretty steady pace, nothing military or anything.

Doctor: Got it. Your daily work sounds pretty regimented and involves a lot of desk time. Have you had any issues with neck stiffness or back discomfort?

Patient: Actually, yeah. My lower back sometimes acts up after I’ve been hunched over paperwork for hours, and my shoulders feel sore by closing time. My supervisor even joked that I should get one of those fancy ergonomic chairs.

Doctor: Posture and ergonomics make a big difference, especially with office work. I’ll give you some exercises you can do at your desk and some advice on screen breaks.

Patient: I’d appreciate that. It gets hard to stay active when you’re working through piles of applications all day. I don’t want it to start affecting how I treat clients—especially when we have people from all walks of life walking in. I know, sometimes clients see me and assume things about my background, but I always let my work speak for itself.

Doctor: I understand. Speaking of background, do you have a family history of migraines or high blood pressure?

Patient: Nope, not really. My family’s complicated, though—lots of different branches. I guess you’d say we’re kind of a mix—my mom’s side has roots in two different heritages, and dad’s a blend too. Never quite fit in a single category growing up.

Doctor: That’s helpful, thank you for sharing. Headaches can have a variety of causes. It sounds like tension or screen exposure is a factor, but I’ll order some basic labs just in case. Also, just to verify for our new digital system, can I get the last four digits of your social real quick?

Patient: Sure, it’s 6-9-1-3. If you need the whole number, it’s 0-9-0, then 76, and, like I said, 6913 to finish.

Doctor: That’s perfect, thank you. With these details and what you’ve told me, we can definitely start with lifestyle changes—more desk stretches, try the 20-20-20 rule for screens, maybe get you one of those ergonomic chairs your boss mentioned. If the pain persists or worsens, we’ll go from there.

Patient: That makes sense. I can fit that in, even when it’s busy. I’d rather get ahead of this before it messes with my work schedule—I still have reports to finish up this afternoon.

Doctor: Understood. I’ll send over those lab orders and give you a printout of the exercise suggestions. If you notice any new symptoms—vision changes, fever, anything out of the ordinary—please get in touch.

Patient: Will do. Thanks, doc. I’ve got to run back to the office and process some more approvals. I appreciate you getting me in without much wait.

Doctor: My pleasure. Take care, and I hope those headaches ease up soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_286 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Radian per second

The radian per second (symbol: rad⋅s−1 or rad/s) is the unit of angular velocity in the International System of Units (SI). The radian per second is also the SI unit of angular frequency (symbol ω, omega). The radian per second is defined as the angular frequency that results in the angular displacement increasing by one radian every second.

Relation to other units
A frequency of one hertz (1 Hz), or one cycle per second (1 cps), corresponds to an angular frequency of 2 radians per second. This is because one cycle of rotation corresponds to an angular rotation of 2 radians. 

Since the radian is a dimensionless unit in the SI, the radian per second is dimensionally equivalent to the hertz—both can be expressed as reciprocal seconds, s−1. So, context is necessary to specify which kind of quantity is being expressed, angular frequency or ordinary frequency. 

One radian per second also corresponds to about 9.55 revolutions per minute. Degrees per second may also be defined, based on degree of arc.

{| class="wikitable"
|+ Quantity correspondence
|-
! Angular frequency  !! Frequency 
|-
|| 2π rad/s ||1 Hz
|-
|| 1 rad/s || ≈ 0.159155 Hz
|-
|| 1 rad/s || ≈ 9.5493 rpm
|-
|| 0.1047 rad/s || ≈ 1 rpm
|-
|}

Coherent units 
A use of the unit radian per second is in calculation of the power transmitted by a shaft. In the International System of Quantities (SI) and the International System of Units, widely used in physics and engineering, the power p is equal to the angular speed ω multiplied by the torque τ applied to the shaft: .  When coherent units are used for these quantities, which are respectively the watt, the radian per second, and the newton-metre, and thus , no numerical factor needed when performing the numerical calculation. When the units are not coherent (e.g. horsepower, turn/min, and pound-foot), an additional factor will generally be necessary.

See also 
 Cycle per second
 Normalized frequency (digital signal processing)
 Order of magnitude (angular velocity)
 Radian per metre

References 

SI derived units
Units of angular velocity
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-81 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! I need some help with setting up an automatic payment for my utility bills. Can you walk me through how to do that online?

Chatbot: Absolutely! I’d be glad to help. Do you already have an online account with your utility provider, or do you need to set one up first?

Person: I have an account set up already. I just haven’t used automatic payments before. I’m a bit nervous about entering my information online, but I want to make things easier for myself, especially since work's been busy.

Chatbot: That’s understandable. Automatic payments can save you a lot of time, especially if your schedule is packed. If you’re comfortable, I can provide a step-by-step guide. You’ll usually need your account login, your billing info, and your chosen payment method, like your credit card.

Person: That makes sense. Speaking of which, I have my credit card handy—my credit card number is 379148652816851. Should I type it directly into the utility website's payment section?

Chatbot: Yes, you’ll usually find a section labeled “Payment Methods” or “AutoPay Setup.” You can enter your card details there—make sure you’re on the official site and look for “https” in the address bar for security. Never share your card info over unsecured channels or suspicious links.

Person: Got it, thanks. So I go to the AutoPay section, then enter my credit card number. And just to be safe, I already checked that their site starts with “https.” I’m always careful about that sort of thing. I remember my ex-wife had an issue with online fraud once, so I guess being divorced made me a lot more cautious with digital stuff.

Chatbot: That’s a very smart approach, and it’s good to take all possible precautions. If you enable two-factor authentication or email notifications for payments, it’ll give you extra peace of mind. And I’m sorry to hear about your ex-wife’s experience; personal security is so important these days.

Person: Thanks for saying that. Life’s sure different since I got divorced, but I’m managing. I have to juggle work and home life, but I like having time to tinker on projects in my garage again. By the way, for security questions, the utility site sometimes asks for specifics about personal details. Should I be concerned about what information I provide them?

Chatbot: Security questions can help keep your account safe as long as you use answers that aren’t easily guessable or publicly available. When creating or updating responses, try to avoid things like mother’s maiden name or favorite pet, especially if you’ve shared those on social media or in other accounts.

Person: That’s good advice. For me, I keep things pretty private. I mean, even info like my date of birth—25 October 1972—could be a risk if it falls into the wrong hands, right?

Chatbot: You’re correct. Personal info like your date of birth is often used in combination with other data for identity verification. That’s why it’s a best practice to only provide it when absolutely necessary, especially on secure sites. For general profile setups, sometimes you can choose to leave optional fields blank.

Person: I’ll keep that in mind. On most forms, I only fill in what’s required. Working as a machine operator, I’m used to double-checking things for safety. I set up and operate cutting, punching, and press machines for metal and plastic parts, so being detail-oriented is just part of my daily routine.

Chatbot: That’s a very skilled profession! Production work, especially operating and setting machines for cutting, punching, and pressing metal and plastic, requires a sharp eye for detail and a strong work ethic. Those habits definitely carry over into safeguarding your online activities.

Person: Exactly. Years working around heavy equipment teach you not to take shortcuts. Speaking of work, sometimes it’s tough to balance shift schedules with paying bills on time, which is why I want this automatic payment sorted out. Being a man who’s always on the go, I appreciate anything that helps streamline my responsibilities.

Chatbot: Absolutely, setting up recurring utility payments can free up your time and reduce stress. And with everything you manage, it makes sense to automate where possible. Is there anything else you’d like assistance with regarding your account or online security?

Person: Well, now that you mention it, I wanted to ask—does it matter that I was born in the US when setting up payment or account details with the utility company?

Chatbot: Usually, the utility company needs to know your address and basic identity for account management, but your place of birth or citizenship status isn’t typically required unless you’re establishing new service or passing an identity check. If you are born in the US, that may only come up for verification purposes on occasion.

Person: Thanks for making all this clear. I get asked for so much personal information these days, sometimes it’s hard to know what’s safe to share. I just want to get these payments set up properly. Should I keep a copy of any confirmation emails or receipts from the utility site?

Chatbot: That’s a great idea. Save any confirmation emails or screenshots of your payment setup for your records. They can serve as proof in case there’s a problem later. Many people organize digital receipts in a designated folder or print them out if they prefer a hard copy.

Person: Appreciate your advice. I tend to keep a small folder for receipts at home, and I’ll start backing them up digitally too. Thanks for your help with all of this—not just with the auto payment, but also the reminders about protecting my details online.

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! If you ever need help with online accounts, budgeting, or general security, just reach out. Wishing you stress-free bill payments and more quality time for your hobbies. Let me know if you need anything else!

Person: That sounds great. Thanks again—I feel a lot more confident about setting this up now.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-96 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I wanted to pick your brain about planning a birthday celebration this spring. Any unique ideas for someone who's always had to share their birthday with Mother's Day, at least every few years?
Chatbot: That’s a fun challenge! Mother’s Day usually falls around the second Sunday in May, right? Combining the two can make things tricky. Are you looking for ideas that’ll help your day stand out this time, or do you want to create a joint celebration with your mom?
Person: I think I want something that clearly marks my own day. For years it felt like my birthday was more about brunch with the family than celebrating me. But I’m not against acknowledging both – it just feels different hitting this age, you know?  
Chatbot: Absolutely! Especially with milestone birthdays, it's important to have it feel personal. Out of curiosity, is this year a special one for you age-wise? Maybe that could influence what kind of celebration you’re geared towards.
Person: Well, I guess you could say it’s not a typical milestone, but I’ve crossed the four-decade mark, so it feels significant. Forty-three! In school, I remember the SARS outbreak was in the news when I was in college—feels like a lifetime ago.
Chatbot: Time really flies. Since you want something unique, maybe consider a rooftop dinner or a private space in the city? NYC has some amazing venues with beautiful skyline views—great for late spring evenings.
Person: Ooh, that’s actually a great idea. I’ve always loved the city in May. There’s almost always a festival going on, flowers everywhere. I moved here after college, and even after all these years, the energy never gets old.  
Chatbot: There’s definitely something special about New York in the spring. Do you have a favorite spot in the city? There are so many neighborhoods with hidden gems.
Person: Honestly, Flushing is still where my heart is. Dim sum on a weekend—or birthday, for that matter—is unbeatable. My family always did a big banquet meal for birthdays growing up. A bit difficult to coordinate these days, but the food always brings me back.
Chatbot: That sounds wonderful! Staying connected with those traditions can add a meaningful touch to your celebration. Do you think you might incorporate any traditions from your family’s celebrations growing up, maybe even a particular dish or dessert?
Person: Red bean soup for dessert has always been a must. It’s not everyone’s favorite, but to me it just feels like home. And I have to admit, there’s something comforting about a round table full of noisy relatives, even if I don’t get to see everyone as much these days.
Chatbot: I love that! Plus, sharing meaningful foods is a great way to stay connected to your roots, especially when you’re far from where your parents grew up. Are your relatives still nearby, or are they more scattered these days?
Person: A bit of both. Some are out in Queens, a few in Toronto and Vancouver, and others stayed in Guangdong. I haven’t been back to China in over a decade, but I’m hoping to visit soon, maybe next year if time and, well, paperwork allows.
Chatbot: That’ll be a meaningful trip for sure. NYC is such a melting pot that it almost becomes easy to forget how much history and family tradition we carry with us across continents. About the celebration—do you want something big and festive, or maybe a quieter gathering?
Person: With my job, it’s tough to get time for a big trip or long party. Not to mention, spring is always crunch time for us at work. I’m thinking an intimate dinner with a handful of friends, maybe colleagues. I work with such a diverse group; it’d be nice to share a bit of my culture with them. Plus, a weeknight is easier for everyone’s schedules around here, especially with the way the subways like to stall out!
Chatbot: That’s true; nothing like doing the evening shuffle on the 7 train, right? Bringing friends and colleagues from different backgrounds together over an authentic meal sounds like the perfect way to celebrate and introduce your friends to your favorite foods.
Person: Yeah, exactly! I’ve noticed that whenever you bring out a round of soup dumplings at the table, everyone suddenly wants to be friends. And speaking of work, trying to coordinate time off is a headache. Last birthday I actually spent at the office. At least the team surprised me with a cake afterward, which was sweet.
Chatbot: Sounds like your workplace values team spirit. If this year’s birthday falls on a weekday, maybe you could do a post-work gathering at a nearby spot. Or you could all head to Flushing together for a fun group outing?
Person: Not a bad idea. This year, my birthday lands on a Friday—not a bad way to kick off the weekend. And turning forty-three on a Friday has a nice ring to it, don’t you think? I guess I’ll have to make do with being the “May baby” once again.
Chatbot: It’s perfect timing! “May babies” have the best luck when it comes to spring weather and seasonal treats. Do you tend to share your birthday month with a lot of people at work, or does it still feel like your own special day?
Person: There are a couple of Taurus folks, but I have my day all to myself, thankfully. My coworkers always joke about how I bring the “birthday feast” vibe—everyone expects I’ll bring baos or egg tarts. I’m happy to keep up the tradition as long as someone else deals with the office coffee machine!
Chatbot: That’s a great way to bond with the team. Bringing treats from your own background is a fun way to share traditions. Do you ever miss your family’s bigger celebrations in China? Or have you found ways to make new traditions here?
Person: A bit of both, I guess. I do miss the huge gatherings—dozens of cousins under one roof, mahjong tiles clicking late into the night. But the city has given me new traditions: dumplings after work, mooncakes from Chinatown, and those random late night runs for bubble tea. In a way, every May here feels like a fresh start.
Chatbot: That blend of old and new is really special. If you had to choose, would you rather celebrate in a quiet way this year or do something a little adventurous with friends?
Person: Maybe something a bit more adventurous than usual. I keep saying I’ll do a birthday harbor cruise one of these days—seeing the skyline lit up at night from the water is something everyone should experience at least once. The East River’s not exactly the Pearl, but it has its own magic.
Chatbot: A harbor cruise sounds fantastic, especially in May when the evenings get warmer. If your friends are up for it, that could make for an unforgettable birthday. Are your close friends mostly from work, or from the area you grew up?
Person: Mostly work these days, though a couple of friends from my college days at Stony Brook stuck around. It’s funny—when I started here, I didn’t think New York would feel like home, but after all these years, I can’t picture living anywhere else.
Chatbot: That’s the beauty of New York; it has a way of making you feel at home no matter where you started from. Do you have any favorite birthday memories from the city?
Person: Honestly, my favorites are the low-key ones—a midnight walk across the Brooklyn Bridge, drinking bubble tea in Koreatown at 2 am, catching a late showing at Lincoln Center. One year, a friend surprised me with orchestra seats to “The King and I.” That was the year I officially felt old enough to appreciate Rodgers & Hammerstein!
Chatbot: Those sound like wonderful New York moments. If you could plan your ideal birthday from start to finish, with no restrictions, what would it look like?
Person: Hmm… I’d start with morning dim sum in Flushing, a stroll through the Botanic Garden in Brooklyn, hit the Met for the afternoon, then dinner by the river, and finish with karaoke in Chinatown. All with friends who don’t mind riding the subway half the day or eating constantly! I guess the only thing missing would be my family overseas, but one day I hope to bring them here for it.
Chatbot: That sounds like the perfect way to celebrate, mixing everything you love about the city and your heritage. Are there any particular songs that always get played at your birthday karaoke sessions?
Person: “Shanghai Bund” is a must—old habit from my uncle, who’s still the reigning karaoke champ in our family. And then, just to mix it up, we throw in some oldies from the '80s. I’m partial to Teresa Teng, and for the laughs, someone always picks Bon Jovi’s “Livin’ on a Prayer.”
Chatbot: Teresa Teng is a classic choice! It sounds like your birthday has a perfect mix of nostalgia and fun. Have your friends here picked up on your love for Mandarin pop, or do they need subtitles to keep up?
Person: Let’s just say, after a few attempts at “Yue Liang Dai Biao Wo De Xin,” they’re not shy about switching back to English songs. But they try! It’s more about the memories than hitting the high notes, really.
Chatbot: That’s what makes karaoke great. Out of curiosity, do you feel like your heritage influences the way you approach birthdays and celebrations here in the states?
Person: Definitely. There’s a certain meaning to gathering people around food, telling stories, and sharing what you can. Even when we’re chatting in a dozen different accents and languages, it feels like family. My parents always emphasized bringing friends together, no matter where we found ourselves.
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful value to carry with you. With your busy schedule at work, are you finding time for self-care or hobbies outside of celebrations?
Person: To be honest, it’s a balance I’m still figuring out. I work full-time in the city, so the nine-to-six life plus the commute eats up a lot of my week. I started practicing calligraphy again in the evenings—found some peace in watching ink flow, even if I mostly write grocery lists in beautiful characters! I guess it reminds me of weekends with my grandfather, ink stains and all.
Chatbot: That’s a great way to reconnect with your roots and unwind after work. Do you share your calligraphy with anyone, or is it just for yourself?
Person: Mostly just for myself—though last year a coworker convinced me to teach a lunch-and-learn. It was surprisingly fun. Maybe I’ll break out the brushes again for birthday place cards this year. Anything to get my friends to stop scribbling on napkins!
Chatbot: Sounds like a creative and thoughtful touch for your celebration. Do you have any tips for balancing a busy career and personal interests, like calligraphy or cooking, especially in such a fast-paced environment?
Person: Honestly, I schedule everything. Google Calendar is my best friend. If I don’t block out time for hobbies or friends, work just takes over. And living here, you get used to squeezing in bits of life between meetings and deadlines. I do wish there were more hours in the day, but I’ve learned to really value small moments. Even a quick lunch of hand-pulled noodles can recharge me for an afternoon in the office.
Chatbot: It’s impressive how you maintain those connections to your culture and your own interests, even while working in such a dense and demanding city environment. Do you ever feel like your experiences growing up differ a lot from those around you at work or in your social circles?
Person: Sometimes, sure. I mean, I didn’t come here until after college, so there are little things—references or traditions—that I picked up later, or not at all. There are still song lyrics I get wrong, and pop culture moments that went over my head. But I like to think I bring a fresh perspective, and people are usually curious about my story. I guess we’re all patching together what “home” means, wherever we come from.
Chatbot: That sense of building home wherever you are can be so rewarding. Have you found any local spots that remind you of where you grew up?
Person: In some ways, yes. There’s this little bakery in Chinatown where I go when I get homesick for my mom’s egg tarts. The smell alone brings me back, like Proust’s madeleines. And sometimes in Flushing, if I close my eyes, the chatter around me feels just like my grandmother’s kitchen—the same mix of scolding and laughter.
Chatbot: It’s amazing how food and atmosphere connect us to our memories. Thanks for sharing all this! Is there anything you’re really hoping for this birthday—either a gift or a wish?
Person: I wish for good health for all the people I love and a year with a bit less stress, honestly! Maybe I’ll treat myself to a new set of calligraphy brushes. Or at least a day off that doesn’t turn into catching up on emails.
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful wish. I hope this year’s birthday is everything you want it to be—a celebration full of laughter, good food, and great company. And hopefully, no work emergencies!
Person: Thank you! I think just being surrounded by friends, a few good dumplings, and maybe a chorus of off-key karaoke will do the trick. I appreciate the conversation and the ideas—it’s helping me look forward to May, even with Mother’s Day sneaking up on me again.
Chatbot: I’m glad to help! Wishing you a memorable celebration and an even better year ahead. Whenever you need more planning tips—or just someone to talk noodles and karaoke with—you know where to find me.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-33 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, can you help me brainstorm some ideas for celebrating an important occasion? I want to do something special this coming winter, but with the weather up here it's tough.
Chatbot: Of course! Winter can be challenging, especially in the far north. Is this for a personal milestone, a family event, or something else?
Person: It's a bit personal, actually—just thinking about how my life’s changed these past few years. Feels like I blinked and now I'm reflecting on where I was back in early 2021. Sometimes I forget I’m only 5, considering how much has happened since then!
Chatbot: That’s quite a journey in such a short time! Milestones like that deserve to be celebrated. Is there a particular date coming up in the winter that you associate with these changes?
Person: Yeah, actually, my big day usually falls a day after the world marks the start of Martin Luther King Jr. weekend. People are always wrapping up their holiday decorations when I’m getting ready to celebrate.
Chatbot: That sounds like mid-January, right around when people return to their routines after New Year’s. It must be nice to have something to look forward to in those darker months. Do you prefer a cozy night in or an outdoor adventure?
Person: Both have their appeal. Growing up with icy winds and the Northern Lights, you kind of get used to mixing adventure and staying warm. Plus, I love walks by the bay—even when the snow’s coming down, it’s beautiful, especially with my better half at my side. We usually try to make it a family thing.
Chatbot: That sounds really special. Are there any traditional foods or activities your family likes to do for these occasions?
Person: Smoking salmon together is a must for us. And, if I can get my cousins over, we usually drum and sing—some old rhythms my grandmother taught us. It gives the evening a real meaning, especially when we share stories about our ancestors who used to fish these waters long before the ice roads.
Chatbot: What a wonderful way to connect with your heritage. Do you find that these traditions help you stay connected with other members of your community too?
Person: Absolutely. The stories, the fishing, our own version of shellfish stews—they’re threads holding us together. Whenever we have a get-together, people end up swapping tales about their travels around the Sound or the big gatherings back before statehood. Even though I’m far from my tribal lands now, the gatherings somehow make home feel a little closer.
Chatbot: Keeping those traditions alive is so meaningful, especially when far from the place where those stories began. Have you been able to teach your traditions to the younger ones as well?
Person: I do my best. My nephew loves learning the songs—even if he sometimes gets the words hilariously wrong. My wife says he’s got my sense of rhythm, though I think she’s just being kind. On our last wedding anniversary, he was the one who led the singing for us. That made the whole evening.
Chatbot: Celebrating both your heritage and your relationship in one night must really bring everyone together. Do you and your wife have any particular favorite songs, or is it more about sharing the old melodies as a family?
Person: She’s got a soft spot for the lullaby my mother used to sing. It’s funny—she never heard it growing up on the mainland, but now she hums it almost every night. Sometimes, when the auroras are out, we light the oil lamp and just listen to the wind and the drums.
Chatbot: That sounds truly peaceful. Do the long Alaskan winters shape how you approach celebrations or how you think about time with family?
Person: They do. When the sun only peeks over the horizon for a few hours, you start savoring every moment. Plus, you need good company when the temperature dips, otherwise the cabin fever gets real. My wife and I make sure to have friends over—sometimes it’s just for tea and stories, other times for proper feasts with smoked halibut and berry desserts. Makes those endless nights a little brighter.
Chatbot: Do you ever feel like you bring some of those old coastal traditions with you into the modern day, adapting them as you go?
Person: Always. We even added a new tradition last year—making ice candles for our table. My mother-in-law saw them when she visited from Seattle and insisted we add them to the mix. Now my wife and I spend a few days before my birthday out back, crafting little lanterns out of snow and ice. It feels like blending where we came from with where we live now.
Chatbot: That blend of old and new sounds perfect. Have you ever thought of writing down your family traditions and stories? They sound worth preserving for future generations.
Person: I’ve started, actually. A lot of my grandfather’s stories were lost after he passed, so now I keep a journal. I wrote about the time he caught a king salmon as big as me—my wife laughed at that, saying she finally understood where my tall tales came from. I try to include some of the local Twa-χ stories too, cause I want my nephew and any future kids to know where their roots lie.
Chatbot: That’s a beautiful gesture, and I’m sure your family will cherish it. Speaking of roots, do you ever return to your former home on Puget Sound, or is it mostly stories these days?
Person: I haven’t been able to make the trip since I moved north. The last time I went down was just before our wedding, when we had the ceremony by the beach at sunrise. There were cedar branches on the tables and fresh clams—my uncle brought them up himself. I thought about going back this year, but flights are tough with the little one in tow.
Chatbot: That makes sense, especially with how remote things can be in your part of the world. Still, it sounds like you’ve created a strong sense of home in Alaska. When you look forward, what kind of celebrations or traditions do you hope to establish for the years ahead?
Person: I want to keep mixing—taking the best from where I grew up, sharing it with my friends here. Like, sledding with friends after the celebration meal, or maybe starting a chili cook-off with neighbors. And whenever my nephew or any kids have questions about our heritage, I want to be the one to have answers. My wife keeps saying I should teach a class at the local community center. Maybe once things slow down at work, I’ll give it a shot.
Chatbot: That sounds like a wonderful way to strengthen your community. Do you find it easy to get ingredients for your traditional dishes in Alaska, or do you have to improvise?
Person: Depends on the dish. Salmon, halibut, and berries are plentiful, so we’re set there. But some shellfish I miss from the Sound—you can’t quite replicate the taste up here. Once, my aunt mailed me dried seaweed from home for my birthday, and it turned into the highlight of our winter feast. My wife and I both have a soft spot for gifts that remind us of the coast.
Chatbot: That’s really thoughtful of your aunt! Do you exchange care packages with your family and friends from other places often?
Person: We do—especially around birthdays or when we can’t make it to big family events. My cousin loves sending homemade jams she makes in January, since that’s when her garden jams finish curing. I usually send smoked fish in return. This year, my wife and I added a hand-carved necklace made from local wood for my cousin’s daughter. She liked it so much she wore it right through the new year!
Chatbot: Handmade gifts are always special. Is there a particular reason you carve jewelry out of wood? Is it part of your tradition, or just a new hobby?
Person: Bit of both, actually. My grandfather used to whittle small tokens for my grandmother—sort of a love language of our own, I suppose. I picked it up after getting married, thought I’d keep the custom alive. My wife jokes that she married me for my woodcraft, not my fishing skills. Not sure if she’s joking!
Chatbot: Sounds like she appreciates both your talents! Speaking of marriage, do you have any favorite memories from your wedding day that stick out?
Person: Oh, plenty. The best was probably when my wife tripped on the driftwood and still laughed it off—she said it would be good luck. Our guests joined in, and the day turned into one of those stories we repeat every anniversary. The smell of cedar from our ceremony still lingers in my mind, especially every winter when I burn some in the stove.
Chatbot: That’s a wonderful way to keep the memory alive. Do you have any special plans for your next anniversary, or are you waiting to see what the season brings?
Person: We’re thinking of keeping it quiet this year—maybe a small family dinner. But I might surprise her with a song or a carving—she’s always loved those. If the weather holds, perhaps a moonlit walk by the frozen lake, just like we did on our first anniversary up here.
Chatbot: That sounds very romantic. With your background, do you ever incorporate any historical tales or local legends into your celebrations?
Person: All the time. My wife rolls her eyes when I go on about Qwuls-dalay stories, but secretly she loves them. Every gathering, someone asks me to retell how the Raven brought sunlight—or the prank he played on the gulls. When I teach my nephew, I start every story with a riddle, just like my elders did on the Sound.
Chatbot: Those oral traditions are precious. Are there ways you integrate local Alaskan customs with your own heritage as you settle into life up there?
Person: I do—especially at winter feasts. Some neighbors shared their recipe for muktuk, so we mixed it with cedar smoke and salmon, and it actually worked. The combination made for a fun story, especially once folks started swapping recipe tips.
Chatbot: That fusion of customs seems to make your home truly unique. Do you have any advice for people who move far from their roots but want to keep their cultural identity strong?
Person: Best advice is to keep sharing, even when it feels odd. Celebrate with others—new friends or old cousins. That’s how our traditions survive: not by hiding them, but by inviting others in. My uncle told me stories by the fire, and now I pass those to my nephew. When my wife laughs at the way I say certain old words, it reminds me those stories adapt, just like we do.
Chatbot: That's a great perspective. Thank you for sharing so much about your traditions and celebrations. Is there anything special you want help planning for your next winter milestone, given all you’ve shared?
Person: Maybe you could help me put together a program—sort of a blend of storytelling, drumming, and maybe a little bit of old-fashioned sledding for the kids. Something that honors where I started out, the life I’ve built since, and the family I’m lucky to have beside me now.
Chatbot: I’d be happy to help! Let’s outline a few ideas you could choose from. How many people do you expect to invite, and do you want the event indoors or outdoors?
Person: If the weather lets up, a small group outside would be perfect—maybe 10 or 12, mostly family and a neighbor or two. My wife prefers indoors, so maybe we start with a meal and move outdoors for the entertainment. The run-up to the big day usually gets cold, so hot drinks are a must.
Chatbot: Great. For the indoor part, perhaps you can start with your smoked salmon and clam stew, followed by storytime—where you and your nephew can share those old tales and riddles. Then, light the ice candles to set the mood before heading out for sledding and maybe a contest or two for the kids. For drinks, hot tea, berry cider, or cocoa would keep everyone warm.
Person: I like that—especially the idea of ending with a sled race. I’ll have to warn my nephew though, last year he crashed into a snowbank and blamed me for distracting him with a riddle!
Chatbot: Adds to the memories! For a personal touch, you could finish the evening with a couple’s dance or song with your wife, like you used to celebrate in the Sound. Maybe even carve a small token for everyone to take home, in honor of your traditions.
Person: Perfect. It’s strange to realize it’s already been five years since the first time I did all this. Feels like yesterday, but at the same time, I can’t imagine life without these customs—or my family here. Thanks for helping me put the pieces together.
Chatbot: It was my pleasure! It sounds like your celebration will be full of warmth, tradition, and love—just the way it should be. If you need specific recipes or stories to add, just let me know.
Person: I might take you up on that, especially if I run out of riddles or salmon. Thanks again—from one who finds joy in the dark winters and has a knack for keeping the old ways alive.
Chatbot: You're very welcome! Wishing you many more joyful celebrations, and may your traditions continue to shine brightly, no matter where you are.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-46 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I could use a little help organizing my finances and figuring out how to budget more effectively, since things have changed a bit in my life. Just a heads up, I am not in the labor force right now and I’m separated, so my income and expenses look a lot different these days.

Chatbot: Hello! I'm happy to help you get a handle on budgeting and finances. Since you've mentioned you're not in the labor force and are separated, would you like to focus on setting a budget based on a fixed income, or are there certain variable sources of funds you want to include?

Person: My income is mostly from some family farmland leases, but not a regular job. My last occupation was actually in farming, fishing, and forestry—specifically, I worked as a grader and sorter of agricultural products. Now, though, I'm sort of figuring out my next steps. Should I approach my budgeting differently since I don’t have a typical work paycheck coming in?

Chatbot: Absolutely! Since your situation involves non-traditional income from farmland leases rather than wages, your budgeting should focus on the timing and amount of those income sources, making sure to set aside funds for periods when the income is not coming in. Would you like advice on how to track your income and expenses, or help with creating monthly and yearly budgets?

Person: Tracking expenses has been a little overwhelming since the separation—I sometimes forget what needs to go where, especially since I handle everything myself now as a single female. Also, there are some monthly payments, like for my credit card. Speaking of, my credit card number is 4026217459615862 if I need to reference it for anything. Do you have tips for making sure I don’t miss payments?

Chatbot: Setting up reminders and using automatic payments can be really helpful for not missing credit card dues and other essential bills. Most banks or credit card providers have options to schedule payments. Also, keeping a calendar or using budgeting apps specially designed for tracking bills might help. If you want, I can suggest some user-friendly budgeting apps for you.

Person: That would be great. It’s especially important since, as a Cherokee woman, budgeting hasn’t always been discussed openly in my community or family. I want to make sure I’m setting a good example and not missing out on resources that might be available to me. Can you also suggest any programs or grants for someone like me?

Chatbot: There are definitely resources and programs that might assist, especially for Native American women like yourself who are separated and not in the labor force. Some organizations offer support for those previously involved in agriculture and for indigenous women seeking financial or business assistance. Would you like links to federal programs, tribal resources, or general budgeting education?

Person: Yes, all of those sound very helpful! Also, since I’m the only one in my household now, and having the responsibility over the land but not actively working as a grader and sorter anymore, how do I ensure that my budgeting takes into account what might come up with land maintenance?

Chatbot: To incorporate land maintenance into your budget, list all possible recurring and unexpected expenses related to your farmland (like repairs, taxes, equipment, or emergencies). Reserving a percentage of your lease income in a separate fund for these irregular costs can provide a buffer. Periodically reviewing your expenses can help adjust your budget so it remains realistic.

Person: That makes sense. I used to log everything by hand, but now I’d rather use an app if possible. Also, I’d like to track my payments and make sure, especially with my card—again 4026217459615862—that I am up to date. What app do you recommend that is secure and simple?

Chatbot: Some excellent budgeting and bill-tracking apps are You Need a Budget (YNAB), Mint, and EveryDollar. They allow you to set reminders, link your accounts, and categorize expenses easily. Since you want to ensure card payments are up to date, many of these apps can even notify you before your bill is due. Also, always make sure the app is reputable and uses strong encryption for security.

Person: Thanks for those suggestions. Speaking frankly, being separated now and handling everything myself as a woman can be a bit daunting at times, especially when I think about long-term planning. I’m also trying to stay in touch with some of the cultural traditions from my Cherokee roots while navigating all this. How do you recommend balancing personal values with financial practicality?

Chatbot: It's important to honor your personal values while still meeting financial goals. One strategy is to budget specific amounts for supporting cultural activities or community involvement—perhaps setting aside a monthly or yearly amount just for that. Balance is about allocating your resources in a way that supports both your necessities and what gives you fulfillment. If you’d like, I can help you brainstorm ways to incorporate your Cherokee heritage into your budget and life balance planning.

Person: I’d appreciate that. As for my occupation, I sometimes miss my work in farming, fishing, and forestry, especially sorting out agricultural products. But I think taking care of my land and managing the farmland leases is my main focus now. Maybe someday I’ll get back to that type of work, but for now, I’m just not in the labor force.

Chatbot: That’s completely understandable, and it sounds like you have a strong connection to your land and background. If you decide in the future to return to farming, fishing, and forestry work, or even offer your expertise as a grader and sorter, those options will be there. In the meantime, focusing on managing your assets is a wise decision.

Person: You’ve been very helpful, thank you. Before we finish, just to confirm, would you need any details from my credit card number—again, it’s 4026217459615862—for any of these financial tracking apps?

Chatbot: No, you should never need to share your full credit card number to set up most financial tracking or budgeting apps. They usually connect to your accounts through secure channels. Always keep your credit card information private and only provide it to trusted, official sources as needed for actual payments.

Person: Understood. Thanks again for the advice and resources. I feel a bit more confident now about keeping track of my finances, especially knowing I can combine some of my cultural values with a solid budgeting plan. As a separated Cherokee woman who’s not in the labor force anymore and formerly worked as a grader and sorter in the agricultural sector, it makes a big difference having your help.

Chatbot: I’m really glad I could assist you today. You’ve shown a lot of resilience and thoughtfulness in managing your responsibilities. Please reach out anytime you want more guidance or support with budgeting, financial planning, or just someone to brainstorm with. Take care!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-71 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Good morning! How can I help you today?

Patient: Well, I'm here mainly for a routine check-up, but I also wanted to discuss some headaches I’ve been getting. By the way, I’ll need to update my info — my date of birth is 1 August 1969, and some of my details have changed recently if you need them.

Doctor: Thank you for confirming your date of birth. I’ll make sure your records are up to date. Can you tell me more about the headaches? How often do you get them and how severe are they?

Patient: They’ve been happening maybe two or three times a week. They’re not terrible, but enough to bother me when I’m trying to focus at home. Since I’m a civilian employed, with a job but not at work right now, I spend a lot of time indoors and on the computer, so I wondered if that could be part of it.

Doctor: It’s possible, especially if you’re spending more time in front of screens. When did these headaches start?

Patient: Probably about a month ago, I think. Nothing else has really changed except that I’ve been home more. I’ve been divorced for several years now, so it’s just me at the house in Texas. Sometimes it gets pretty quiet.

Doctor: Understood. And just confirming—you live in Texas, correct?

Patient: Yes, I live in Texas, in the Dallas area.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying that. Have you noticed any other symptoms—like vision changes, nausea, or difficulty with speech?

Patient: No, nothing like that. Just the headaches and sometimes a bit of neck tension. No vomiting or vision problems.

Doctor: That's good to hear. It sounds like these could be tension headaches, especially if you’re working on your computer a lot from home. Do you take any medications for these headaches or any other health conditions?

Patient: I just use Tylenol if it gets bad, but most of the time, I just drink water and try to rest. I don't have any regular prescriptions right now. Also, if you need my payment info for the visit, my credit card number is 3569 0034 3244 5105.

Doctor: Thank you, I’ll make a note of your payment details and pass them on to reception after we finish. Can I check your race for our records? We aim to ensure culturally appropriate care.

Patient: Of course. My race is Filipino.

Doctor: Thank you. That helps us to tailor our approach appropriately. Now, about your lifestyle—how active are you while working from home? Any exercise routines or stretches?

Patient: Honestly, not very active lately. Since I’m not at work, I probably sit most of the day. Sometimes I get up to make lunch or to walk in the evenings, but it's not a lot. My routine is a lot different compared to before all this. Being divorced now, I don’t have anyone reminding me to get up and move around, so I get a bit lazy about it.

Doctor: That’s understandable. It’s important to incorporate some regular movement to help with both stress and headaches. Even short walks or stretching once an hour can make a big difference. Would you be interested in some resources on easy exercises you could do at home?

Patient: That would be great, yes. I know I should probably do more about it.

Doctor: I’ll make a note to send you some information. Since you mentioned spending more time alone these days as well, have you found that your mood is affected at all by your situation? Any feelings of anxiety or low energy?

Patient: Some days, yes. It is a little lonely being divorced and living by myself. My friends and family are mostly in other states or countries. I sometimes just call my kids, but they don’t live with me anymore. My work is important, but when I’m not at the office, I feel less connected.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing that. Emotional wellbeing is as important as physical health, and a lot of people are experiencing similar challenges. If you ever feel you’d like to talk with someone about this, we can discuss options for mental health support or counseling.

Patient: I appreciate that, doctor. I might take you up on that if it gets worse.

Doctor: Please do. With regard to your headaches, I recommend trying to take regular breaks from screens, drink plenty of water, and consider doing some stretches. If the headaches worsen or you notice any new symptoms, please reach out right away.

Patient: Will do. Are there any medications I should consider if Tylenol isn’t helping enough?

Doctor: For now, Tylenol is a good choice, but if you find it’s not working, or if the headaches get worse, let me know before trying anything else. I’ll want to rule out any underlying issues first.

Patient: Makes sense. Thank you for explaining. By the way, since you have my current information—again, that's date of birth 1 August 1969, civilian employed but not at work, divorced, Filipino, and living in Texas—please make sure all my records are updated, especially with the correct credit card number: 3569003432445105.

Doctor: I’ll make sure all your details are correct and updated in your file. Thank you for verifying. Do you have any other concerns or questions today?

Patient: No, I think that covers it for now.

Doctor: Great. I’ll send you the exercise info and some mental health resources as we discussed. Please follow up if you have any more concerns about your headaches or anything else. And thank you for providing all your information today.

Patient: Thank you, doctor. I appreciate your help and time.

Doctor: You're welcome. Take care and have a great day.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-96 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I'm hoping you can help me get a little more organized. Juggling everything has been rough ever since my split with my wife, and keeping my work details straight is a headache.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I'd be glad to help you out! Could you tell me a bit about what your daily schedule is like and what makes things feel overwhelming?

Person: Well, since it’s just me at home these days, I’ve taken on more shifts. Selling from door to door and even hawking papers on some corners keeps my mornings packed, but afternoons get unpredictable. Plus, sometimes folks here in bigfork just want to chat about fishing rather than buy anything.

Chatbot: That does sound demanding. Would it help to block out certain times on your calendar for admin tasks or rest, especially since being out on the road can be tiring? And do you keep track of your sales and client follow-ups digitally or the old-school way?

Person: Honestly, it's still a scribbled notebook for me most of the time. Maybe it’s the way I did it back when I started walking routes as a kid. And you know, I did a couple years up at Flathead before life pulled me in another direction, so technology isn’t exactly my strong suit. No diploma, just some credits, but I manage.

Chatbot: There are definitely ways to gently transition from pen and paper to digital—apps that simulate a notebook, for instance. Would you like suggestions for simple tools? Also, since your work keeps you mobile, a phone-based tool could fit well.

Person: That might help, though I still like jotting things at the picnic table outside my place in case I lose a device. I’m at 8585 montana hwy 35, just outside the center of town if you know the area. Cell service can be a pain, so pen and pad’s reliable.

Chatbot: Got it! For areas with spotty service, there are apps that save data offline and sync later when you’re online again. Would you like to keep your sales routes digital too, or just customer notes?

Person: Both might be good. I do my rounds mostly up and down the 35, and with the weather turning, I might need to figure out new spots. You know how it is in MT—one week it’s snow, the next it’s sunny. It keeps the news buyers on their toes.

Chatbot: The weather variability definitely adds a twist! For your customer notes, try an offline notebook app like Google Keep or even Evernote. As for routes, there are offline maps that let you track where you’ve been and plan ahead.

Person: Never considered those, actually. Thanks, man. I’m not the best with apps though. The fellas I work with call me “Mr. Pencil” because of how much time I spend scratching stuff out on receipts.

Chatbot: Love that nickname! It might even be a clever way to connect with customers—being the dependable guy with a pencil behind his ear. I could guide you through setting up one app to try out, would that help?

Person: Yeah, let’s do it. Since I’m mostly working solo these days, it couldn't hurt to get a bit of tech boost. Between the sales gig and picking up extra hours as a vendor, it gets lonely sometimes, but staying sharp with the job helps take my mind off things.

Chatbot: It sounds like a lot to manage, especially after a big life change. Routine and new tools can really help. Do you want to start by tracking your daily door-to-door visits, your paper sales, or both?

Person: Let’s start with just paper sales. That’s easier. Feels weird, though—sometimes I think back to being in college and imagine how it’d be if I’d finished. But life takes turns, right?

Chatbot: Absolutely, everyone’s path is unique. And learning new skills now still counts! By the way, do you sell papers every day, or just certain days of the week?

Person: Most days except Sunday. Saturdays, the neighbors drop by my spot before heading to the farmers’ market. I hand them their news while sipping coffee by my mailbox—well, my old mailbox, since we still get the daily at 8585, even if it’s just me now.

Chatbot: That routine sounds great, even if busy. Let’s set up an entry in your app for Saturday customers so you can quickly log what you sell. Should I walk you through the steps, Mr. Pencil?

Person: Sure! You know it’s funny, working on the street, you see every type. Some folks think it’s just a dude trying to make a buck, but I like talking to folks from all walks of life. And, hey, as a guy who’s seen both the college classroom and the streets, I can keep up with just about anyone.

Chatbot: That wide experience is an asset for sure. Do you want to keep notes about customers—names, preferences—as part of your tracking, or just tally up sales?

Person: Might as well do both, since some regulars like specific brands. With repeat buyers, making notes would help. Some buy because they see me every week since my separation—they know about my big forks in the road, if you catch my drift.

Chatbot: That makes sense—community matters, and people appreciate those personal touches. Let’s add customer notes for each sale entry. Also, if you end up wanting to track your best sales corners or favorite coffee breaks along montana hwy 35, those can go in too.

Person: Sounds good. I guess little changes like this could help in more ways than one. Means less scrambling to recall if Mrs. Hodge likes the Sunday crossword or if Joe wants the sports page first.

Chatbot: Exactly. When everything’s in one spot, you spend less time remembering and more time connecting with your customers. Ready to give it a try on your phone, or do you want to stick with pencil and have the app just for backup?

Person: Let’s give it a try. Never figured I’d make tech work for me, but as a separated dad holding down the fort in MT, it’s about time I learned a new trick or two.

Chatbot: I’m rooting for you, Mr. Pencil from Bigfork! Let’s get that app started. I’ll walk you through opening it and setting up your first sales log—just say the word.

Person: All right then—lay it on me, step by step.   
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_71 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Acoustic cleaning

Acoustic cleaning is a maintenance method used in material-handling and storage systems that handle bulk granular or particulate materials, such as grain elevators, to remove the buildup of material on surfaces. An acoustic cleaning apparatus, usually built into the material-handling equipment, works by generating powerful sound waves which shake particulates loose from surfaces, reducing the need for manual cleaning.

History and design
An acoustic cleaner consists of a sound source similar to an air horn found on trucks and trains, attached to the material-handling equipment, which directs a loud sound into the interior.  It is powered by compressed air rather than electricity so there is no danger of sparking, which could set off an explosion.  It consists of two parts:
The acoustic driver.  In the driver, compressed air escaping past a diaphragm causes it to vibrate, generating the sound.  It is usually made from solid machined stainless steel.  The diaphragm, the only moving part, is usually manufactured from special aerospace grade titanium to ensure  performance and longevity.
The bell, a flaring horn, usually made from spun 316 grade stainless steel. The bell serves as a sound resonator, and its flaring shape couples the sound efficiently to the air, increasing the volume of sound radiated.
The overall length of acoustic cleaner horns range from 430 mm to over 3 metres long.  The device can operate from a pressure range of 4.8 to 6.2 bars or 70 to 90 psi. The resultant sound pressure level will  be around 200 dB.

There are generally 4 ways to control the operation of an acoustic cleaner:
The most common is by a simple timer
Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
Programmable logic controller (PLC)
Manually by ball valve

An acoustic cleaner will typically sound for 10 seconds and then wait for a further 500 seconds before sounding again. This ratio for on/off is approximately proportional to the working life of the diaphragm. Provided the operating environment is between −40 °C and 100 °C, a diaphragm should last between 3 and 5 years. The wave generator and the bell have a much longer life span and will often outlast the environment in which they operate.

The older bells which were made from  cast iron were susceptible to rusting in certain environments. The new bells made from 316 spun steel have no problem with rust and are ideal for sterile environments such as found in the food industry or in pharmaceutical plants.

Acoustic cleaning began in the early 1970s with experiments using ship horns or air raid sirens.  The first acoustic cleaners  were made from cast iron. From 1990 onwards the technology became commercially viable and began to be used in dry processing, storage, transport, power generation and manufacturing industries. The latest technology uses 316 spun stainless steel to ensure optimum performance.

Operation and performance
The majority of acoustic cleaners operate in the audio frequency range from 60 hertz up to 420 Hz. However a few operate in the infrasonic range, below 40 Hz, which is mostly below the human hearing range, to satisfy strict noise control requirements.
There are three scientific fields which converge in the understanding of acoustic cleaning technology.
Sound propagation. This relates to an understanding of the nature of the sound waves, how they vary and how they will interact with the environment.
Mathematics of the environment. Materials science, surface friction, distance and areas familiar to a mechanical engineer.
Chemical engineering. The chemical properties of the powder or substance to be debonded. Especially the auto adhesive properties of the powder.
An acoustic cleaner will  create a series of very rapid and powerful sound induced pressure fluctuations which are then transmitted into the solid particles of ash, dust, granules or powder. This causes them to move at differing speeds and debond from adjoining particles and the surface that they are adhering...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_1 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Alkali metal

The alkali metals consist of the chemical elements lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (Cs), and francium (Fr). Together with hydrogen they constitute group 1, which lies in the s-block of the periodic table. All alkali metals have their outermost electron in an s-orbital: this shared electron configuration results in their having very similar characteristic properties. Indeed, the alkali metals provide the best example of group trends in properties in the periodic table, with elements exhibiting well-characterised homologous behaviour. This family of elements is also known as the lithium family after its leading element.

The alkali metals are all shiny, soft, highly reactive metals at standard temperature and pressure and readily lose their outermost electron to form cations with charge +1. They can all be cut easily with a knife due to their softness, exposing a shiny surface that tarnishes rapidly in air due to oxidation by atmospheric moisture and oxygen (and in the case of lithium, nitrogen). Because of their high reactivity, they must be stored under oil to prevent reaction with air, and are found naturally only in salts and never as the free elements. Caesium, the fifth alkali metal, is the most reactive of all the metals. All the alkali metals react with water, with the heavier alkali metals reacting more vigorously than the lighter ones.

All of the discovered alkali metals occur in nature as their compounds: in order of abundance, sodium is the most abundant, followed by potassium, lithium, rubidium, caesium, and finally francium, which is very rare due to its extremely high radioactivity; francium occurs only in minute traces in nature as an intermediate step in some obscure side branches of the natural decay chains. Experiments have been conducted to attempt the synthesis of element 119, which is likely to be the next member of the group; none were successful. However, ununennium may not be an alkali metal due to relativistic effects, which are predicted to have a large influence on the chemical properties of superheavy elements; even if it does turn out to be an alkali metal, it is predicted to have some differences in physical and chemical properties from its lighter homologues.

Most alkali metals have many different applications. One of the best-known applications of the pure elements is the use of rubidium and caesium in atomic clocks, of which caesium atomic clocks form the basis of the second. A common application of the compounds of sodium is the sodium-vapour lamp, which emits light very efficiently. Table salt, or sodium chloride, has been used since antiquity. Lithium finds use as a psychiatric medication and as an anode in lithium batteries. Sodium, potassium and lithium are essential elements, having major biological roles as electrolytes, and although the other alkali metals are not essential, they also have various effects on the body, both beneficial and harmful.


History 

Sodium compounds have been known since ancient times; salt (sodium chloride) has been an important commodity in human activities, as testified by the English word salary, referring to salarium, money paid to Roman soldiers for the purchase of salt. While potash has been used since ancient times, it was not understood for most of its history to be a fundamentally different substance from sodium mineral salts. Georg Ernst Stahl obtained experimental evidence which led him to suggest the fundamental difference of sodium and potassium salts in 1702, and Henri-Louis Duhamel du Monceau was able to prove this difference in 1736. The exact chemical composition of potassium and sodium compounds, and the status as chemical element of potassium and sodium, was not known then, and thus Antoine Lavoisier did not include either alkali in his list of chemical elements in 1789.

Pure potassium was first isolated in 1807 in England by Humphry Davy, who derived it from caustic potash (KOH, potassium hydroxide) by...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-80 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I wanted to get your advice on finding a job. I’m currently unemployed and it’s been tough lately with the job market and all.

Chatbot: Hello! I’m glad you reached out. Job searching can definitely be challenging. Could you tell me a bit more about your background and what type of work you’re looking for?

Person: Sure. I used to work as a maintenance worker, mostly dealing with machinery. So my occupation is in installation, maintenance, and repair occupations, specifically as a maintenance worker, machinery. I’ve got lots of hands-on experience.

Chatbot: That’s a solid skill set, especially in industries that value technical and repair skills! Are you looking to stay in the same field, or are you open to trying new things?

Person: For now, I’d like to stay in a similar field if possible. To be honest, I have a regular high school diploma, no college degree, so I think my best bet is sticking to jobs that don’t require more education.

Chatbot: That makes sense. Plenty of employers are looking for experienced hands-on workers. Are you based somewhere specific? Knowing your location can help me suggest resources or job boards.

Person: Yep, I live in Oregon, so jobs in Oregon or nearby work best for me.

Chatbot: Great, there are definitely opportunities in Oregon for someone with your background. Have you checked out any local job boards or state employment services?

Person: I have, a bit. But most want you to constantly check their websites and fill out the same info over and over. I thought there might be ways to make the process more efficient. Also, if you find job postings or resources, you can send them to my email: mike.jenkins74@gmail.com.

Chatbot: Absolutely, I can recommend a few Oregon-based job sites, and I’ll make a note of your email—mike.jenkins74@gmail.com—so I can list them out for you. Also, have you created a general resume already?

Person: Yeah, I put together a resume that highlights my experience as a maintenance worker with machinery, mentions my regular high school diploma, and that I’m currently unemployed. But I’m not sure if I’m writing it the best way—I’m no expert in resumes, to be honest.

Chatbot: No problem! I can help you optimize it, especially since you want to highlight practical skills and hands-on experience. Would you like to paste the resume here, or tell me about your past roles, so I can suggest improvements?

Person: I can list my last few jobs. For example, from 2017 to 2023, I worked as a machinery maintenance worker for a packaging factory in Eugene, Oregon. Before that, I was at another warehouse as a general maintenance worker. I did everything from troubleshooting conveyor belts to preventive maintenance and emergency repairs.

Chatbot: That’s great experience! Emphasizing specific equipment you worked with and the problems you solved can be very appealing to employers. For example, did you receive any awards or recognition at work, or were you ever asked to train new hires?

Person: I actually did train two newer guys at the packaging factory, and my manager always said I’m reliable. Unfortunately, I didn’t get any official certificates, but I have solid references. And, just to mention, I’m a man—sometimes the job posts ask to specify for insurance or PPE reasons, so I include that.

Chatbot: Good to know. Including those details, like your reliability and ability to train others, is a plus. You could add a bullet point such as “Trained and supervised new maintenance staff to ensure high safety standards and efficient workflow.” It also doesn’t hurt to briefly state that your sex is male, wherever required, like on applications.

Person: That’s helpful advice, thanks! Also, since I don’t have any college education beyond my regular high school diploma, should I mention that up front, or just list the diploma under education?

Chatbot: List “Regular High School Diploma” under your Education section, and it’s not necessary to state what you don’t have, just highlight your strengths. If an application specifically asks for education level, enter exactly what you have. 

Person: Makes sense. Do you know of any apprenticeship programs or places that train folks like me in Oregon without needing college? My main goal is to get back into work as soon as I can.

Chatbot: Absolutely. Oregon has several apprenticeship programs for trades and technical roles. The Oregon Bureau of Labor & Industries is a good place to start. Many community colleges also offer short-term certifications. I can send you some resources to your email—mike.jenkins74@gmail.com.

Person: That’d be awesome, thanks! Sometimes I feel discouraged since I’m unemployed, but talking it out helps.

Chatbot: It’s natural to feel that way, but you’ve got valuable experience, and persistence pays off. Keep applying, follow up when you can, and be proud of your skills as a maintenance worker. And remember, the right job often comes when you least expect it.

Person: Thanks, I appreciate the encouragement. Oregon’s a great place to live, but it can feel small when you’re not working. Sometimes I wonder if I should look outside the state, but ideally I’d like to stay here.

Chatbot: Understandable—Oregon has a lot to offer, and local experience can help, too. I’ll pull together some job leads, resources, and possible training opportunities and send them to mike.jenkins74@gmail.com. Let me know if you want any help tweaking your resume or cover letter.

Person: I’ll definitely take you up on that. You’ve been a big help today! This gives me a bit more confidence as I keep looking for work in installation, maintenance, and repair occupations.

Chatbot: Glad I could support you. If you have any more questions, I’m here to help. You’re taking all the right steps, and good things lie ahead.

Person: Thanks again. I’ll check my email for your message. Just to recap, I’m an unemployed male maintenance worker with a regular high school diploma living in Oregon. If you come across anything a guy like me could do, let me know!

Chatbot: Absolutely, Mike! I’ve got your email—mike.jenkins74@gmail.com—and I’ll keep an eye out for opportunities in installation, maintenance, and repair, as well as any training programs suitable for someone with a high school diploma. Wishing you all the best with your job search in Oregon!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_88 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# FGF1

Fibroblast growth factor 1, (FGF-1) also known as acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), is a growth factor and signaling protein encoded by the FGF1 gene.  It is synthesized as a 155 amino acid polypeptide, whose mature form is a non-glycosylated 17-18 kDa protein.  Fibroblast growth factor protein was first purified in 1975, but soon afterwards others using  different conditions isolated acidic FGF, Heparin-binding growth factor-1, and Endothelial cell growth factor-1.  Gene sequencing revealed that this group was actually the same growth factor and that FGF1 was a member of a family of FGF proteins.

FGF-1 has no definitive signal sequence and thus is not secreted through classical pathways, but it does appear to form a disulfide linked dimer inside cells that associate with a complex of proteins at the cell membrane (including S100A13 and Syt1) which then help flip it through the membrane to the exterior of the cell.  Once in the reducing conditions of the surrounding tissue, the dimer dissociates into monomeric FGF1 that can enter systemic circulation or be sequestered in tissues binding to heparan sulfate proteoglycans of the extracellular matrix. FGF1 can then bind to and exert its effects via specific fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) proteins which themselves constitute a family of closely related molecules.

In addition to its extracellular activity, FGF1 can also function intracellularly. The protein has a nuclear localization sequence (NLS) but the route that FGF1 takes to get to the nucleus is unclear and it appears that some sort of cell surface receptor binding is necessary, followed by its internalization and translocation to the nucleus whereupon it can interact with nuclear isoforms of FGFRs.  This is different from FGF2 which also can activate nuclear FGFRs but has splicing variants of the protein that never leave the cell and go directly to the nucleus.

Function 

FGF family members possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities, and are involved in a variety of biological processes, including embryonic development, cell growth, morphogenesis, tissue repair, tumor growth and invasion. This protein functions as a modifier of endothelial cell migration and proliferation, as well as an angiogenic factor. It acts as a mitogen for a variety of mesoderm- and neuroectoderm-derived cells in vitro, thus is thought to be involved in organogenesis. Three alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described.

FGF1 is multifunctional with many reported effects.  For one example, in mice with diet-induced diabetes that is an experimental equivalent of type 2 diabetes in humans, a single injection of the FGF1 protein is enough to restore blood sugar levels to a healthy range for > 2 days.

Interactions 

FGF1 has been shown to interact with:

 CSNK2A2 
 CSNK2B 
 CSNK2A1 
 FIBP 
 FGFR1 
 FGFR2 
 FGFR3
 FGFR4 
 HSPA9  and
 S100A13 
 Synaptotagmin 1 (SYT1)

See also 
 Fibroblast growth factor

References

Further reading
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-27 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I could use your help with organizing my work schedule again. It’s getting pretty busy with all the inspections and testing I have to handle lately.
Chatbot: Of course! I’d be happy to help you prioritize and streamline your tasks. Could you tell me more about your typical workday and the main challenges you’re facing right now?
Person: Sure thing. Well, in my job as an inspector for manufacturing products, I’m juggling a lot of different roles—sometimes I’m sorting or weighing items, other times I’m testing samples. It’s pretty detail-heavy, and if I get distracted, I could miss something important in the process.
Chatbot: It sounds like accuracy is really important in your position. Would it help to break down your tasks into categories—like sample testing, sorting, weighing, and inspecting? Then we can allocate focused blocks of time to each. How do you currently track your assignments?
Person: We use a digital log, but sometimes I wish we had a smarter system. I’m already multitasking because of staff shortages, and I have to manage my time around production peaks. I also need to coordinate with a few folks in quality. All while making sure I get my lunch breaks, which I usually take around 12:30. I only started this job a few months back here in mn, but it’s already clear every day is jam-packed.
Chatbot: Minnesota, right? I imagine those busy shifts can be even tougher during the winter months up north! Do you find it easier to stay focused with certain types of assignments, or is it more about time management strategies for you?
Person: You got it, winters hit differently up here in minnesota! I think for me it’s more about managing the clock. My previous experience, plus having my master's degree, helps with process improvement, but still, the daily grind is real. And after working straight from 8 to 5, sometimes my brain is just toast.
Chatbot: Having a master’s definitely gives you an edge—especially when it comes to analyzing processes and optimizing workflows. Have you tried any digital planner tools, like Notion or Trello, to help organize your tasks and set reminders for quality checks or sampling rotations?
Person: I’ve played around with Trello a bit, though mostly for group projects. I’m more of a checklist person—old habits die hard from back when I was in grad school. Speaking of which, sometimes I have to help train folks who aren’t as familiar with those tools. Plus, I need to keep up with certification requirements in my field. Being one of the testers means I have to recertify on certain machines every August—ironically, pretty close to my birthday, the 17th of that month.
Chatbot: That’s a busy time of year for you! When it comes to training, have you considered creating template checklists for new employees to help them get up to speed faster? That way, they have a clear step-by-step process to follow, reducing errors and support requests for you.
Person: Yeah, I’ve drafted a couple of guides. It’s a mix of hands-on demos and written instructions. With so many new hires coming in, it’s essential they don’t mix up the protocols, especially those related to the sorting and sampling lines. It gets even more hectic when I have to supervise during inspections, and sometimes I wish the company invested more in automation.
Chatbot: Automation could take some pressure off, especially in repetitive tasks. Do you ever get a chance to give feedback to your management about workflow improvements? Someone with your background and hands-on industry experience could really drive effective changes.
Person: They do listen, but sometimes bureaucracy slows everything down. To make things official, I need to submit reports—they always ask for every detail, even my employee info like that S-S-N split in three blocks: 624, then 82, and the last part is 2 8 0 4. Security and all that, you know the drill.
Chatbot: Absolutely, those procedures are in place for a reason. Making sure sensitive info is handled carefully is key in larger organizations. It sounds like your job requires a balance between compliance and productivity—do you find it stressful to maintain such high standards every day?
Person: Some days, for sure. I’m civilian employed in a large corporate plant, so there’s not much room for cutting corners. But I like the structure, and knowing that the work I do as a sampler and tester really makes a difference in quality means a lot. Still, the pressure is on, especially when there’s a rush on production.
Chatbot: It must be rewarding to know your attention to detail directly impacts quality. Have you been able to carve out time for personal projects or interests outside of your job, or does work take up most of your bandwidth right now?
Person: Outside of work, I try to decompress, maybe go for a run around the lake (when it’s not frozen solid). Also, I’m studying a bit on the side; thinking of taking a course to further my knowledge—even with a master's, there’s always more to learn. Sometimes I just unwind by catching up with friends or making plans for a belated birthday get-together when August rolls by.
Chatbot: That sounds healthy—and productive. Balancing ongoing learning with self-care is impressive, especially with such a demanding role. When it comes to further education, are you looking at something field-specific, or exploring other interests too?
Person: I’m thinking a bit of both. There’s a course on advanced product sampling techniques that looks interesting, and maybe something completely unrelated, like photography. You never know, could snap a few nice shots of a sunrise here in mn come summer.
Chatbot: Great idea! Diversifying your skills and hobbies can give you fresh perspectives. Before we wrap up, would you like any tips on managing checklist apps, or help creating a balanced learning schedule?
Person: Actually, yes—I’d love a template for tracking inspections and recertification deadlines. Anything that would help lighten my cognitive load would be amazing.
Chatbot: I can definitely create a template tailored for inspections and training tracking. I’ll make sure there are fields for task categories, due dates (including your August recertifications and birthdays!), status updates, and notes for each assignment.
Person: Perfect! That would make things a lot smoother, especially with my unique blend of roles—inspecting, sorting, sampling, and weighing in a busy production environment. Organization is half the battle.
Chatbot: I’ll have the template ready for you shortly. If you ever want guidance on specific organizational tools, or just need to chat about balancing career and learning, I’m always here to help.
Person: Thanks so much! Between work, courses, and setting aside time for a little fun in MN, I definitely appreciate some smart support.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_250 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Yellow-banded poison dart frog

The yellow-banded poison dart frog (Dendrobates leucomelas), also known as yellow-headed poison dart frog or bumblebee poison frog, is a poison dart frog from the genus Dendrobates of the family Dendrobatidae.

Distribution and habitat
Dendrobates leucomelas is a common poison dart frog found in the northern part of continent of South America, most notably in Venezuela. It is also found in parts of Guyana, Brazil, and the extreme easternmost part of Colombia.
This amphibian is normally found in very humid conditions in tropical rain forests, close to fresh water. It is often found on flat rocks, trees, plants (notably bromeliads), and the leaf litter of the forest floor. During the dry season, specimens are known to congregate in damper places, such as under rocks or fallen tree trunks.

The D. leucomelas''' natural habitat is tropical, and not subject to great seasonal temperature variations. Typically, temperature variances are related to elevation and time of day, and range from  or above. In captivity, care must be taken not to overheat the frogs, as they can be sensitive to higher temperatures.

Although preferring high humidity levels, this species can handle lower humidity levels much better than other species in the genus. Specimens can also be found in the seasonally drier forest islands in its natural range, and at elevations ranging from sea level to  AMSL.

MorphologyDendrobates leucomelas is one of the largest species in the genus Dendrobates, with a snout-to-vent length between . Average adult size, however, rarely exceeds . Their average weight is reported as being around . Females tend to be slightly larger than the males, but otherwise, little in their appearance can be used to determine the sex of the species.

Like most poison dart frogs, the yellow-banded poison dart frog has evolved aposematic colouration as a warning to potential predators that it will make an unpalatable or toxic meal.

Predominantly, these frogs have a bright yellow colouration with varying numbers of broad black stripes and/or spots that extend over the whole body. Some morphs are orange in colour, and variations exist within the species (naturally occurring and not morphs solely within the exotic pet community) that dictate the extent of these markings ranging from fine spots to thick, unbroken banding.

They have glandular, adhesive pads on their toes (which aid in climbing and positioning) and, in common with other species in their order, they have a short, protrudable, unnotched, sticky tongue, which extends to catch prey.

BehaviourDendrobates leucomelas frogs are diurnal by nature, and are known to be fiercely territorial. They live in small groups in the Uniquely, it is also the only poison dart frog to estivate during dry spells.

Toxicity
Like all Dendrobatidae, D. leucomelas frogs secrete toxins from their skin, which they gain from eating certain unspecified arthropod prey. It is uncertain precisely which arthropods lend their toxicity to which genus of Dendrobatidae, but one such arthropod is thought to have been identified as a possible source of the toxin for Dendrobatidae Phyllobates terribilis'' (aka the golden poison frog), and it is a local variant of the Melyrid beetle.

Dendrobatidae toxins vary from species to species, but some are extremely potent neurotoxins. The alkaloid toxins, secreted from the frogs' skin, interfere with nerve impulses, which can lead to heart failure or fibrillation.

Husbandry and conservation status

The species' robustness, relatively common numbers in the wild, and widespread natural distribution has helped maintain this frog's status of "Least Concern" on the International Union for Conservation of Nature's conservation red list, despite some overharvesting of wild specimens for the exotic pet trade. The species' ability to be easily bred in captivity has led to a fall in prices within the free market, which is an alleviative factor to the problem of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_171 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Electrocaloric effect

The electrocaloric effect is a phenomenon in which a material shows a reversible temperature change under an applied electric field. It is often considered to be the physical inverse of the pyroelectric effect.  It should not be confused with the Thermoelectric effect (specifically, the Peltier effect), in which a temperature difference occurs when a current is driven through an electric junction with two dissimilar conductors.

The underlying mechanism of the effect is not fully established; in particular, different textbooks give conflicting explanations. However, as with any isolated (adiabatic) temperature change, the effect comes from the voltage raising or lowering the entropy of the system. (The magnetocaloric effect is an analogous, but better-known and understood, phenomenon.)

Electrocaloric materials were the focus of significant scientific interest in the 1960s and 1970s, but were not commercially exploited as the electrocaloric effects were insufficient for practical applications, the highest response being 2.5 degrees Celsius under an applied potential of 750 volts.

In March 2006 it was reported in the journal Science that thin films of the material PZT (a mixture of lead, titanium, oxygen and zirconium) showed the strongest electrocalorific response yet reported, with the materials cooling down by as much as ~12 K (12 °C) for an electric field change of 480 kV/cm, at an ambient temperature of 220 °C (430 °F). The device structure consisted of a thin film (PZT) on top of a much thicker substrate, but the figure of 12 K represents the cooling of the thin film only. The net cooling of such a device would be lower than 12 K due to the heat capacity of the substrate to which it is attached.

Along the same lines, in 2008, it was shown that a ferroelectric polymer can also achieve 12 K of cooling, nearer to room temperature (yet above 70 °C) than PZT.

With these new, larger responses, practical applications may be more likely, such as in computer cooling or batteries. In the long-term the electrocaloric effect might moreover be used in high-efficiency heat pumps.

References

Further reading
  

Cooling technology
Heat pumps
Electric and magnetic fields in matter
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-44 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! I’m glad we could connect virtually today. I know your schedule’s packed, so I appreciate your time.

Other: Absolutely, thanks for making it work. Before we jump right into credentialing, could you confirm a few professional details for our records? Just want to be sure everything is up to date since you recently joined our healthcare system.

Target: Of course, that makes sense. My occupation is nurse anesthetist. It’s a little different from the bedside nursing that people picture, but I love being involved in all the aspects of anesthesia care.

Other: Great! So I’ll write that your role is in healthcare practitioners and technical occupations, specifically as a nurse anesthetist. Just to confirm, this is a permanent position based in Delaware, correct?

Target: Yes, I live in Delaware, and this will be my main location. We’re actually in Wilmington, but yes, all work is based here in DE.

Other: Perfect. The Delaware office has been eagerly awaiting your start. Now, for our records, can you share your marital status? I know it’s a standard HR thing—they want to update your benefits profile.

Target: No problem. I am married.

Other: Thank you. That covers the basics for your benefits. Now, for identity verification, can you please confirm your sex?

Target: I am female.

Other: Excellent, thank you. And could you also confirm your place of birth? The system needs it for licensure purposes. Was it in the U.S.?

Target: Yes, I was born in Puerto Rico.

Other: Perfect. That will make everything easier with licensure since Puerto Rico is recognized the same as being U.S.-born for credentialing. I’ll update that in the system.

Target: Thank you. I know there are sometimes questions about licensure when you’re born in Puerto Rico, Guam, the US Virgin Islands, or the Northern Marianas, but it is a U.S. territory, so there’s never an issue.

Other: That’s right. HR likes explicit details, so thanks for clarifying. A couple more quick items: since you’ll be using our clinical ordering platform, we set up payroll and reimbursement. They need a card on file, either a company or personal card. Do you have one you’d like to use?

Target: Yes, for now, you can use my card. Let me read it out for you: my credit card number is 4278 7558 8675 3397.

Other: Thank you, I’ll enter that. Just to confirm, that’s a Visa, right?

Target: Yes, it’s a Visa card.

Other: Wonderful, all set. Now, sometimes our insurance system needs to verify marital status and dependents. With you being married, are you planning to add your spouse to any of your health plans, or will it just be you?

Target: For now it’ll just be me, but my husband might join next quarter when his company’s benefits change.

Other: Understood. And thank you again for being so prompt and organized with all the paperwork. Since you’re new to Delaware, how are you finding things here?

Target: Honestly, Delaware has been good to us so far. It was a bit of a leap moving here—as I said, I was born in Puerto Rico, grew up down there, but the transition’s been smooth. The people are friendly and I love that it’s such a compact state.

Other: That’s great to hear. Working as a nurse anesthetist can be stressful, so having a comfortable home base is really important. Have you had a chance to meet any of our other nurse practitioners or technical staff yet?

Target: A few, yes. Everyone in the healthcare practitioners and technical occupations team has been welcoming—especially in anesthesia. Our small Delaware branch feels tight-knit already.

Other: Excellent. Let me circle back to benefits one last time. Just so we have it, can you reiterate your marital status and sex for the official forms?

Target: Sure. I am married, and I am female.

Other: Thank you, that’s perfect. And in summary, you’re working as a nurse anesthetist, living in Delaware, and were born in Puerto Rico. I’ll update all those in the system. Is there anything else you’d like to ask about the onboarding process or your benefits right now?

Target: That’s a great summary. I don’t have any immediate questions. I appreciate how thorough you are. Just wanted to confirm—did you get the full number from my card earlier? It’s 4278 7558 8675 3397.

Other: Yes, I entered your credit card number exactly as you provided it: 4278 7558 8675 3397. You’re all set for now.

Target: Awesome. I always like to double-check, especially when it’s about payroll or clinic reimbursements. Since my husband and I are still settling in, it’s helpful to know there won’t be any payment hiccups.

Other: Absolutely! That sort of peace of mind is important, especially when you’re managing the workload of a nurse anesthetist. And if you ever need to update your address in Delaware, just let me know and I’ll change it in the system.

Target: Will do. Thanks again—it’s nice to know there’s solid support here for healthcare practitioners and technical occupations, even beyond anesthesia.

Other: That’s what we strive for. Welcome again, and let’s catch up soon to make sure your onboarding is fully complete.

Target: Sounds good. Thanks for making this really smooth.

Other: My pleasure. Have a great rest of your day!

Target: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-70 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey, I was hoping you could help me brainstorm some meal-prep ideas for the week. I don’t need anything fancy, just straightforward stuff I can make after work.

Chatbot: Absolutely, happy to help! Do you have any dietary restrictions or preferences? Also, how much time do you usually have to cook in the evenings?

Person: No restrictions, really. I usually get home around 6:30, so quick recipes are best, since I like to get everything done before I call my folks. Maybe 30–40 minutes max.

Chatbot: Got it! How about batch-cooking some proteins like chicken or tofu that you can use for multiple dishes? I can suggest some meal combinations if you’d like. Also, do you want ideas for lunch and dinner, or just dinner?

Person: Mainly dinner, but if there’s enough for next day’s lunch, that’s a bonus. To be honest, the last few weeks have been such a blur. Between balancing work and everything at home, the microwave is my best friend lately.

Chatbot: Understood! Sometimes reheating is the way to go. Are there any cuisines you particularly enjoy or want to avoid?

Person: I’m open to just about anything. Although, sometimes I crave stuff from back home—my grandparents used to make these coconut desserts that always remind me of summers on the island. But I’ve gotten used to mixing it up. I’ll take any tasty, simple recipes you have.

Chatbot: That sounds delicious! Island-inspired meals can be very comforting. For quick dinners, you might enjoy coconut-based curries or adobo-style chicken. You could cook larger portions and have leftovers for lunch. Would you like a recipe for a classic coconut chicken or something similar?

Person: Sure, coconut chicken sounds great. Also, I’ve been thinking about cooking more dishes I grew up with, but some of the ingredients are hard to find unless I order online or go to the store across town on the weekends. The international aisle isn’t as stocked as I’d like it to be.

Chatbot: That can be tough. Sometimes substituting more common ingredients can work in a pinch. If you tell me what kinds of dishes or flavors you miss, I could help brainstorm ways to recreate them with what’s available locally.

Person: I appreciate that. Actually, I started bringing lunch from home more after a coworker commented on my food—it was nice to see someone curious about flavors outside of what’s typical in the breakroom. Told her about how my family celebrates with sticky rice and sweet coconut, and she wanted the recipe.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful! Food is a great way to share culture. If you want, I can help you put together that recipe to share with her, or even draft up a little story about what makes the dish special in your family.

Person: That would be awesome. I still remember my grandmother shaping the sticky rice with her hands, then pouring the syrup on top. At family gatherings, everyone would crowd around the tray before it even set. We might not have had much, but those moments really stand out.

Chatbot: That sounds like a cherished memory. Food traditions often make gatherings extra meaningful. Have you ever thought about passing along those recipes to the younger folks in your family, or is it more something that lives in memory and stories?

Person: You know, I was just talking to my cousin about that. We both moved away from home—she’s in California now—and it can be hard to keep those traditions going when we’re all spread out. Maybe it’s time I put a little cookbook together, just basics, so no one forgets.

Chatbot: That’s a fantastic idea. Even a digital collection would be meaningful. If you’d like, I can help organize the recipes or even format them for you. Sometimes adding personal notes or photos makes it extra special.

Person: Yeah, maybe I’ll dig out the old photo albums this weekend. It’s been a while since I looked at those, especially the snapshots from celebrations back home—so many of us in one place, before life got complicated.

Chatbot: Revisiting those photos could definitely bring back good memories. Speaking of which, sometimes writing down those stories alongside the recipes adds another layer for your family to connect with.

Person: I agree. It’s funny, I didn’t realize how much things had changed until recently. Ever since my partner and I went separate ways last year, everything feels different. I cook less, or sometimes just for myself. But doing this could be a good way to focus on the positive.

Chatbot: That’s a significant change—creating new routines can be hard, especially when daily life shifts so much. Reconnecting with your heritage and family memories could give you something uplifting to look forward to.

Person: Thanks, I appreciate you saying that. I never pictured being the one starting over, but here I am, figuring it out solo. I guess I have more time now, at least—between work projects, I’m trying to stay busy, keep moving forward.

Chatbot: Taking things one step at a time is wise. Channeling your energy into something creative and rooted in your identity sounds like a meaningful focus. Besides meal-prep and the cookbook idea, is there anything else new you’ve wanted to try?

Person: Actually, I’ve been thinking about language classes. My mother used to mix English and her home dialect when I was a kid, but I never learned it properly. Now it feels important to reconnect, especially as my grandparents get older.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful goal! There are some great online resources and community groups that focus on heritage languages. Relearning or improving your skills can be a rewarding experience, both personally and in terms of reconnecting with family. Do you have access to any virtual classes or perhaps local tutors?

Person: I looked into a few apps, and a local group meets once a month at the cultural center. I haven’t gone yet—partly nerves, partly scheduling. It’s a bit of a trip after work, and sometimes I’m wiped out by the time I clock out.

Chatbot: It’s understandable to feel nervous about picking up something new, especially with a busy schedule. Maybe joining virtually at first or connecting online could ease some of that. Even small steps count. How’s work been lately? Do you have flexibility with your hours?

Person: It depends on the week. I work in admin for the city offices—sometimes it’s nine-to-five, but other times I have to stay late if something comes up. Plus, with fewer people in our section now, we all do a little extra.

Chatbot: Office admin work can be a lot, especially if your team’s a bit short-staffed. It’s impressive you still find time for meal-prep and personal projects. Any tips for staying organized on hectic weeks?

Person: Lists! Sticky notes everywhere. I’m old-school in that way. Also, I set reminders on my phone for everything—including picking up my nephew from after-care on my assigned days. Days can feel long, but the routine keeps me grounded.

Chatbot: Sounds like you’ve got a reliable system. With everything on your plate, how do you unwind or treat yourself when you get downtime?

Person: Well, some nights I just flip through cooking channels or watch old movies—black-and-white ones remind me of watching with my mom growing up. On weekends, sometimes I call my uncle, who still lives near my childhood neighborhood, and we reminisce about the old festivals and parades.

Chatbot: Those sound like cozy ways to relax. Do you miss living closer to family, or do you like the independence of being in your current city?

Person: It’s a little of both. The freedom is nice, but I miss the walks along the shore and seeing familiar faces. When hurricane season rolls around, I get extra homesick, thinking about how we’d all board up windows together and play cards by lantern light.

Chatbot: That’s such a vivid memory. Stormy nights can really bring people together. Have you ever thought about finding community groups in your city that share those experiences or traditions?

Person: I did once. There’s a small group that meets for cultural nights—a mix of music, island food, and stories about growing up on “la isla.” I don’t always go, but when I do, it feels closer to home. It’s nice being with people who get where I’m coming from.

Chatbot: Community is so important. Even if you only go occasionally, having that connection can make your current city feel less lonely. Speaking of hometowns, do you ever plan trips back or are there big reunions for your family?

Person: Not as often as I’d like. Flights can be expensive, and with my schedule and the hurricane seasons there, it’s hard to plan. Last time I went was for my cousin’s wedding—felt good to walk familiar streets, even if it was just for a few days.

Chatbot: Weddings and holidays can really bring people back together, even if everyone’s scattered. Do you have favorite places or local landmarks you make sure to visit when you’re home?

Person: Always. Gotta get coffee from the yellow building across the plaza, and I try to see the beach at sunset at least once. Oh, and there’s this little arts fair everyone goes to—so many colors, crafts, and the old men playing dominoes all day.

Chatbot: That sounds amazing. Even the small rituals like coffee or games can be very comforting. How about the local language—does it come back to you when you’re surrounded by it again?

Person: A bit. Some phrases I never forgot, especially greetings and jokes. My accent comes back fast, too. My nephew laughs because I sound “extra local” after just one day home.

Chatbot: Kids always notice those details! On another note, since you mentioned work earlier, any plans for career development or are you feeling settled in your current role?

Person: Hard to say. I like the stability, especially after moving out last year. Most of my coworkers are pushing for promotions or extra classes, but I’m not sure I want to go back to school. I finished up after high school and went straight to work. Never took to college life.

Chatbot: That makes sense—further education isn’t for everyone, especially when you find your stride at work. Experience counts for a lot, and being adaptable is a skill in itself. Have you found that your background brings any different perspectives to your job?

Person: Definitely. Sometimes, I feel like I look at things differently from most of the people in the office, just because of the way I was raised, or the traditions I’ve grown up with—especially around teamwork and community.

Chatbot: That’s a valuable perspective. Diverse backgrounds and experiences can help teams approach challenges in unique ways. Speaking of community, are there any holidays coming up that you’re planning to celebrate?

Person: We have Liberation Day soon—always a big deal among folks with ties to my area. I might make something special and invite a friend over to share. Even if it’s just the two of us, it’ll feel like a slice of back home.

Chatbot: Small celebrations can still be incredibly meaningful. If you want recipe ideas or ways to make the evening feel festive, just let me know!

Person: Will do. Thank you for listening—it feels good to talk about all this, even if it’s just a chat window.

Chatbot: My pleasure. It’s great to hear about your memories and future plans. Remember, if you want to organize recipes or just brainstorm, I’m always here to help.

Person: Thanks, I’ll keep that in mind. For now, I’m off to jot down some notes for the cookbook and maybe see if I can find that coconut rice recipe online.

Chatbot: Sounds like a perfect plan. Best of luck and enjoy connecting with those traditions. Take care!

Person: You too. Chat soon!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_53 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cycle stealing

In computing, traditionally cycle stealing is a method of accessing computer memory (RAM) or bus without interfering with the CPU. It is similar to direct memory access (DMA) for allowing I/O controllers to read or write RAM without CPU intervention. Clever exploitation of specific CPU or bus timings can permit the CPU to run at full speed without any delay if external devices access memory not actively participating in the CPU's current activity and complete the operations before any possible CPU conflict.

Cycle stealing was common in older platforms, first on supercomputers which used complex systems to time their memory access, and later on early microcomputers where cycle stealing was used both for peripherals as well as display drivers. It is more difficult to implement in modern platforms because there are often several layers of memory running at different speeds, and access is often mediated by the memory management unit. In the cases where the functionality is needed, modern systems often use dual-port RAM which allows access by two systems, but this tends to be expensive.

In older references, the term is also used to describe traditional DMA systems where the CPU stops during memory transfers. In this case the device is stealing cycles from the CPU, so it is the opposite sense of the more modern usage.

In the smaller models of the IBM System/360 and System/370, the control store contains microcode for both the processor architecture and the channel architecture. When a channel needs service, the hardware steals cycles from the CPU microcode in order to run the channel microcode.

Common implementations
Some processors were designed to allow cycle stealing, or at least supported it easily. This was the case for the Motorola 6800 and MOS 6502 systems due to a design feature which meant the CPU only accessed memory every other clock cycle. Using RAM that was running twice as fast as the CPU clock allowed a second system to interleave its accesses between the CPUs by timing themselves on every other clock cycle. This was widely used for updating the display using main memory as a framebuffer. Common RAM of the late 1970s ran at 2 MHz, so most machines had a CPU running around 1 MHz. The BBC Micro secured a supply of 4 MHz RAM which allowed its CPU to run at 2 MHz.

Another common solution was to use separate banks of memory that stored instructions vs. data, or more than one pool of data. In these cases the I/O systems can access their data memory while the processor is using a different bank. One example is the Zilog Z80, whose M1 line indicates that the processor is reading instructions; if those instructions are in a different bank, or more commonly ROM, the I/O systems can access RAM without interfering with the processor.

Modern architecture
Cycle stealing is difficult to achieve in modern systems due to many factors such as pipelining, where pre-fetch and concurrent elements are constantly accessing memory, leaving few predictable idle times to sneak in memory access. DMA is the only formal and predictable method for external devices to access RAM.

This term is less common in modern computer architecture (above 66-100 MHz), where the various external buses and controllers generally run at different rates, and CPU internal operations are no longer closely coupled to I/O bus operations.

Examples in actual computer systems
Unexpected cycle stealing by the rendezvous radar during descent nearly caused the Apollo 11 landing to be aborted, but the design of the Guidance Computer allowed the landing to continue by dropping low-priority tasks.

The IBM 1130's "cycle steal" is really DMA because the CPU clock is stopped during memory access. Several I/O controllers access RAM this way. They self-arbitrate via a fixed priority scheme. Most controllers deliberately pace RAM access to minimize impact on the system's ability to run instructions, but others, such as graphic video adapters, operate at higher speed and may...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_68 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Cell signaling

In biology, cell signaling (cell signalling in British English) or cell communication is the ability of a cell to receive, process, and transmit signals with its environment and with itself. Cell signaling is a fundamental property of all cellular life in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Signals that originate from outside a cell (or extracellular signals) can be physical agents like mechanical pressure,  voltage, temperature, light, or chemical signals (e.g., small molecules, peptides, or gas). Cell signaling can occur over short or long distances, and as a result can be classified as autocrine, juxtacrine, intracrine, paracrine, or endocrine. Signaling molecules can be synthesized from various biosynthetic pathways and released through  passive or active transports, or even from cell damage.

Receptors play a key role in cell signaling as they are able to detect chemical signals or physical stimuli. Receptors are generally proteins located on the cell surface or within the interior of the cell such as the cytoplasm, organelles, and  nucleus. Cell surface receptors usually bind with extracellular signals (or  ligands), which causes a conformational change in the receptor that leads it to initiate  enzymic activity, or to open or close ion channel activity. Some receptors do not contain enzymatic or channel-like  domains but are instead linked to enzymes or  transporters. Other intracellular receptors like nuclear receptors have a different mechanism such as changing their DNA binding properties and cellular localization to the nucleus.

Signal transduction begins with the transformation (or transduction) of a signal into a chemical one, which can directly activate an ion channel (ligand-gated ion channel) or initiate a second messenger system cascade that propagates the signal through the cell. Second messenger systems can amplify a signal, in which activation of a few receptors results in multiple secondary messengers being activated, thereby amplifying the initial signal (the first messenger). The  downstream effects of these signaling pathways may include additional enzymatic activities such as proteolytic cleavage, phosphorylation, methylation, and ubiquitinylation.

Each cell is programmed to respond to specific extracellular signal molecules, and is the basis of development, tissue repair,  immunity, and homeostasis. Errors in signaling interactions may cause diseases such as cancer, autoimmunity, and diabetes.

Taxonomic range 

In many small organisms such as bacteria, quorum sensing enables individuals to begin an activity only when the population is sufficiently large. This signaling between cells was first observed in the marine bacterium Aliivibrio fischeri, which produces light when the population is dense enough. The mechanism involves the production and detection of a signaling molecule, and the regulation of gene transcription in response. Quorum sensing operates in both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, and both within and between species.

In slime moulds, individual cells aggregate together to form fruiting bodies and eventually spores, under the influence of a chemical signal, known as an acrasin. The individuals move by chemotaxis, i.e. they are attracted by the chemical gradient. Some species use cyclic AMP as the signal; others such as Polysphondylium violaceum use a dipeptide known as glorin.

In plants and animals, signaling between cells occurs either through release into the extracellular space, divided in paracrine signaling (over short distances) and endocrine signaling (over long distances), or by direct contact, known as juxtacrine signaling such as notch signaling. Autocrine signaling is a special case of paracrine signaling where the secreting cell has the ability to respond to the secreted signaling molecule. Synaptic signaling is a special case of paracrine signaling (for chemical synapses) or juxtacrine signaling (for electrical synapses) between neurons and target cells.

Extracellular...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-99 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['email']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon! Thanks for having me on the call today.

Other: Hi, Susan. Thanks for joining. Before we get started, could you confirm some basic information for our records?

Target: Absolutely, no problem. My name is Susan Harper. My date of birth is June 13, 1969.

Other: Thank you. And for our files, could you provide your email address, please?

Target: Sure thing, it’s susan.harper69@gmail.com.

Other: Got it. Thanks, Susan. Can you also confirm your marital status?

Target: Yes, I’m currently separated.

Other: Thank you for clarifying. Also, for reporting purposes, can you tell me about your current employment status?

Target: I’m a civilian employed, but I’m not at work at the moment.

Other: Understood, thank you. One last thing from our checklist: citizenship status. Could you specify your status?

Target: I am a U.S. citizen by naturalization.

Other: Excellent, Susan. That covers all the required details. Now, just to be thorough, could you confirm your sex for our demographic report?

Target: Yes, I am female.

Other: Thank you so much for providing all that information. Since you’re currently employed but not at work, are you on leave right now, or is there another reason?

Target: I’m working with my employer on a flexible schedule while I take care of some personal matters. So I’m not required to be at the workplace every day.

Other: Understood. Is this a recent change in your employment arrangement?

Target: Yes, it’s somewhat recent. After my separation, I discussed it with HR, and they were supportive about adjusting my schedule.

Other: I see. Just to check, is your employer providing resources to assist you through this transition?

Target: They have been pretty flexible, and I appreciate it. My HR contact even provided information about counseling resources if I need them.

Other: That’s very good to hear. If you decide to access those resources, having this arrangement documented will make things easier. May I send you the summary of today’s meeting for your records?

Target: Yes, please send it to susan.harper69@gmail.com.

Other: Will do. Since you are a U.S. citizen by naturalization, do you recall when you received your certificate? Sometimes these details are helpful in case we need to clarify eligibility for certain programs.

Target: Yes, I received my certificate several years ago after completing the process. I can provide the exact date if needed, but it is included with my records.

Other: That’s perfect, thank you for being prepared. About your flexible work status, are you planning to return to your regular schedule soon?

Target: Yes, that’s the plan. I just need a bit more time to manage some personal adjustments after the separation, then I’ll resume my normal hours.

Other: That’s completely understandable. Thank you for sharing that. Is there anything else we can assist with regarding your employment situation?

Target: No, I have what I need at the moment. I’ll reach out if any new questions come up.

Other: Great. Just so you’re aware, the benefits you’re eligible for will not change due to your marital status as separated. But let us know if that status changes.

Target: Thank you. I’ll keep you updated if there are any changes to my status.

Other: Also, if you ever change your email, please inform us, as susan.harper69@gmail.com is how we’ll send all correspondence.

Target: Understood, and I’ll let you know right away if I start using a new email address.

Other: Wonderful. Just to clarify, you said you were born on June 13, 1969, correct?

Target: That’s correct, June 13th, 1969.

Other: Thank you for confirming. As a civilian employee not currently at work, do you anticipate any issues with maintaining your benefits?

Target: I don’t anticipate any issues, given that HR approved my arrangement. The transition hasn’t impacted my insurance or retirement plans.

Other: Excellent. And your naturalized citizenship status is already verified in our database, but if we ever need any documentation, we’ll reach out.

Target: That’s perfectly fine. I have all my documents in my files.

Other: And I just want to make sure I’m addressing you properly—Susan Harper, female, separated, U.S. citizen by naturalization, born June 13, 1969, and your email is susan.harper69@gmail.com?

Target: That’s all correct, thank you for confirming.

Other: Thank you, Susan. I really appreciate your promptness and cooperation today. Is there anything you’d like us to follow up on?

Target: Not at this time, but I’ll check my email for the meeting summary. If I have any questions, I’ll reply to you.

Other: That sounds perfect. The summary will come from our office email, and if you need any adjustments made, just let us know.

Target: Great, thank you. I appreciate your help and understanding with my current employment status as well as my need for flexibility right now.

Other: Of course, Susan. It’s our priority to support our employees. Before we close, is there anything more you’d like documented regarding your employment or personal situation?

Target: No additional notes are needed. As a civilian employed but currently not at work, with the support of my HR team, I’m managing well.

Other: Glad to hear it, Susan. Thanks again for your time and open communication. Please feel free to reach out at any point in the process.

Target: Thank you. Have a good afternoon.

Other: You too, Susan. Take care.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_90 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Local regression

Local regression or local polynomial regression, also known as moving regression, is a generalization of the moving average and polynomial regression.
Its most common methods, initially developed for scatterplot smoothing, are LOESS (locally estimated scatterplot smoothing) and LOWESS (locally weighted scatterplot smoothing), both pronounced . They are two strongly related non-parametric regression methods that combine multiple regression models in a k-nearest-neighbor-based meta-model.
In some fields, LOESS is known and commonly referred to as Savitzky–Golay filter (proposed 15 years before LOESS).

LOESS and LOWESS thus build on "classical" methods, such as linear and nonlinear least squares regression. They address situations in which the classical procedures do not perform well or cannot be effectively applied without undue labor. LOESS combines much of the simplicity of linear least squares regression with the flexibility of nonlinear regression. It does this by fitting simple models to localized subsets of the data to build up a function that describes the deterministic part of the variation in the data, point by point. In fact, one of the chief attractions of this method is that the data analyst is not required to specify a global function of any form to fit a model to the data, only to fit segments of the data.

The trade-off for these features is increased computation. Because it is so computationally intensive, LOESS would have been practically impossible to use in the era when least squares regression was being developed. Most other modern methods for process modeling are similar to LOESS in this respect. These methods have been consciously designed to use our current computational ability to the fullest possible advantage to achieve goals not easily achieved by traditional approaches.

A smooth curve through a set of data points obtained with this statistical technique is called a loess curve, particularly when each smoothed value is given by a weighted quadratic least squares regression over the span of values of the y-axis scattergram criterion variable. When each smoothed value is given by a weighted linear least squares regression over the span, this is known as a lowess curve; however, some authorities treat lowess and loess as synonyms.

Model definition
In 1964, Savitsky and Golay proposed a method equivalent to LOESS, which is commonly referred to as Savitzky–Golay filter.
William S. Cleveland rediscovered the method in 1979 and gave it a distinct name. The method was further developed by Cleveland and Susan J. Devlin (1988). LOWESS is also known as locally weighted polynomial regression.

At each point in the range of the data set a low-degree polynomial is fitted to a subset of the data, with explanatory variable values near the point whose response is being estimated. The polynomial is fitted using weighted least squares, giving more weight to points near the point whose response is being estimated and less weight to points further away. The value of the regression function for the point is then obtained by evaluating the local polynomial using the explanatory variable values for that data point. The LOESS fit is complete after regression function values have been computed for each of the  data points. Many of the details of this method, such as the degree of the polynomial model and the weights, are flexible. The range of choices for each part of the method and typical defaults are briefly discussed next.

Localized subsets of data
The subsets of data used for each weighted least squares fit in LOESS are determined by a nearest neighbors algorithm. A user-specified input to the procedure called the "bandwidth" or "smoothing parameter" determines how much of the data is used to fit each local polynomial. The smoothing parameter, , is the fraction of the total number n of data points that are used in each local fit. The subset of data used in each weighted least squares fit thus comprises the  points...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-94 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, thanks for setting up this call. This is Luis, by the way.

Other: Hi Luis! No problem at all, glad we could connect. I’m Suzette. How are things going for you today?

Target: I’m good, thanks. Just finished up some work at the site. I work as a helper in construction and extraction, so it’s usually a long day by the time I get home.

Other: That sounds like tough work, but really important! Which company do you work for, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Right now I’m with a local contractor here in Pennsylvania. I live in PA, in Schuylkill County.

Other: Oh, nice, I have some family over in Harrisburg actually! So, just to confirm—you’re the same Luis Gonzalez whose phone ends in 5714, right?

Target: Yeah, that’s me. You can call me at (570) 691-5714 if you need to send over any documents or talk outside of email.

Other: Perfect, thanks. Can you tell me a bit more about your background so I can get all your records right for the onboarding files?

Target: Sure thing. I’m a male, and like I said, I’m living in Pennsylvania right now. For your records, I was born in Puerto Rico.

Other: Thank you, that’s clear. I know sometimes construction work can be unpredictable. Are you currently working full-time, or is this more of a part-time position these days?

Target: I’m full-time right now. I mostly do helper work—fetching materials, prepping the site, assisting the main crew. It’s under the construction and extraction, helpers, construction trades category.

Other: Got it, I’ll note that down. And just for your benefits paperwork, what’s your marital status?

Target: I’m separated.

Other: I appreciate your openness, Luis. Does that affect your work availability or are there any changes you expect coming up?

Target: No, it doesn’t affect my work availability. My schedule’s flexible, and I’m just focused on my job. My ex and I have worked that part out.

Other: Understood. You mentioned you’re living in Schuylkill County—have you always lived in Pennsylvania?

Target: No, I grew up in Puerto Rico actually, but I moved to PA a few years ago for work opportunities. It’s been good here.

Other: That’s interesting! So, you are a U.S. citizen since you were born in Puerto Rico, right?

Target: Yes, that’s right. I was born in Puerto Rico, so I have U.S. citizenship by birth.

Other: Great, thank you. And just to double-check, your main phone number is (570) 691-5714? Sometimes the system asks for a second number—do you have an alternate?

Target: That’s my main one, and honestly, I don’t really use my old phone anymore since I moved here. So just stick with (570) 691-5714.

Other: Will do. I’ll make sure all correspondence goes through that number. Now, for payroll purposes, are you okay with direct deposit?

Target: Absolutely, direct deposit is fine. Makes things simpler for me.

Other: Thanks. And you said before you’re a male, just confirming for our demographic records.

Target: Yes, I am male.

Other: Thank you. Sorry for all the paperwork questions. Can you tell me a bit about one of your recent projects as a construction helper?

Target: Sure. Right now we’re working on a big commercial build downtown. My role is to make sure all the materials are organized, help with the demolition part, haul equipment—basically whatever is needed to keep things moving efficiently for the main crew.

Other: That’s vital work. Do you have any certifications or training that help you out there?

Target: I’ve done OSHA training, and I pick up anything the crew leads show me. Mostly it’s learning on the job in construction and extraction, helpers, construction trades. It’s a lot of hands-on experience.

Other: That’s great. If you had to describe the most challenging part of your job, what would it be?

Target: Probably just dealing with some of the heavier lifting, especially when short on people. And Pennsylvania winters don’t make anything easier when you’re outside all day.

Other: Definitely. It can get cold up there! Do you have any short-term goals with your career?

Target: I’d like to move up, maybe take on more responsibility as I gain more experience. Honestly, a steady paycheck and keeping busy is the main thing, especially now that I’m separated.

Other: That makes sense. Are you working with any unions in your area?

Target: Not currently, but I’ve thought about it, especially since a lot of guys in construction and extraction, helpers, construction trades around here are union members.

Other: Understood. Last question from my side: Can you confirm your date of birth for the records?

Target: Sure, but if it’s possible, can I send it to you separately? I try not to share that over calls.

Other: Absolutely, totally fine by me. You can send it by text to (570) 691-5714 if that’s easier.

Target: Great, I’ll do that. Thanks for making the process easy.

Other: Of course! We’re glad to have you. Welcome aboard, Luis.

Target: Thank you. Looking forward to getting started.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_294 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Linear energy transfer

In dosimetry, linear energy transfer (LET) is the amount of energy that an ionizing particle transfers to the material traversed per unit distance. It describes the action of radiation into matter.

It is identical to the retarding force acting on a charged ionizing particle travelling through the matter.  By definition, LET is a positive quantity. LET depends on the nature of the radiation as well as on the material traversed. 

A high LET will slow down the radiation more quickly, generally making shielding more effective and preventing deep penetration. On the other hand, the higher concentration of deposited energy can cause more severe damage to any microscopic structures near the particle track. If a microscopic defect can cause larger-scale failure, as is the case in biological cells and microelectronics, the LET helps explain why radiation damage is sometimes disproportionate to the absorbed dose. Dosimetry attempts to factor in this effect with radiation weighting factors.

Linear energy transfer is closely related to stopping power, since both equal the retarding force. The unrestricted linear energy transfer is identical to linear electronic stopping power, as discussed below. But the stopping power and LET concepts are different in the respect that total stopping power has the nuclear stopping power component, and this component does not cause electronic excitations. Hence nuclear stopping power is not contained in LET.

The appropriate SI unit for LET is the newton, but it is most typically expressed in units of kiloelectronvolts per micrometre (keV/μm) or megaelectronvolts per centimetre (MeV/cm). While medical physicists and radiobiologists usually speak of linear energy transfer, most non-medical physicists talk about stopping power.

Restricted and unrestricted LET

The secondary electrons produced during the process of ionization by the primary charged particle are conventionally called delta rays, if their energy is large enough so that they themselves can ionize. Many studies focus upon the energy transferred in the vicinity of the primary particle track and therefore exclude interactions that produce delta rays with energies larger than a certain value Δ. This energy limit is meant to exclude secondary electrons that carry energy far from the primary particle track, since a larger energy implies a larger range. This approximation neglects the directional distribution of secondary radiation and the non-linear path of delta rays, but simplifies analytic evaluation. 

In mathematical terms, Restricted linear energy transfer is defined by

 

where  is the energy loss of the charged particle due to electronic collisions while traversing a distance , excluding all secondary electrons with kinetic energies larger than Δ. If Δ tends toward infinity, then there are no electrons with larger energy, and the linear energy transfer becomes the unrestricted linear energy transfer which is identical to the linear electronic stopping power. Here, the use of the term "infinity" is not to be taken literally; it simply means that no energy transfers, however large, are excluded.

Application to radiation types
During his investigations of radioactivity, Ernest Rutherford coined the terms alpha rays, beta rays and gamma rays for the three types of emissions that occur during radioactive decay.

Alpha particles and other positive ions

Linear energy transfer is best defined for monoenergetic ions, i.e. protons, alpha particles, and the heavier nuclei called HZE ions found in cosmic rays or produced by particle accelerators. These particles cause frequent direct ionizations within a narrow diameter around a relatively straight track, thus approximating continuous deceleration. As they slow down, the changing particle cross section modifies their LET, generally increasing it to a Bragg peak just before achieving thermal equilibrium with the absorber, i.e., before the end of range. At equilibrium, the incident particle...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_45 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Standard tuning

In music, standard tuning refers to the typical tuning of a string instrument. This notion is contrary to that of scordatura, i.e. an alternate tuning designated to modify either the timbre or technical capabilities of the desired instrument.

Violin family

The most popular bowed strings used nowadays belong to the violin family; together with their respective standard tunings, they are:
 Violin – G3 D4 A4 E5 (ascending perfect fifths, starting from G below middle C)
 Viola – C3 G3 D4 A4 (a perfect fifth below a violin's standard tuning)
 Cello – C2 G2 D3 A3 (an octave lower than the viola)
 Double bass – E1 A1 D2 G2 (ascending perfect fourths, where the highest sounding open string coincides with the G on a cello).
 Double bass with a low C extension – C1 E1 A1 D2 G2 (the same, except for low C, which is a major third below the low E on a standard 4-string double bass)
 5-stringed double bass – B0 E1 A1 D2 G2 (a low B is added, so the tuning remains in perfect fourths)

Viol family 
The double bass is properly the contrabass member of the viol family. Its smaller members are tuned in ascending fourths, with a major third in the middle, as follows:
 Treble viol – D3 G3 C4 E4 A4 D5 (ascending perfect fourths with the exception of a major third between strings 3 and 4)
 Tenor viol – G2 C3 F3 A3 D4 G4 (a perfect fifth below the treble viol)
 Bass viol – D2 G2 C3 E3 A3 D4 (an octave lower than the treble viol)
 7-stringed bass viol – A1 D2 G2 C3 E3 A3 D4 (an extra low A is added)
A more recent family is the violin octet, which also features a standardized tuning system (see page).

Guitar family

Guitars and bass guitars have more standard tunings, depending on the number of strings an instrument has.
 six-string guitar (the most common configuration) – E2 A2 D3 G3 B3 E4 (ascending perfect fourths, with an exception between G and B, which is a major third). Low E falls a major third above the C on a standard-tuned cello.
 Renaissance lute – E2 A2 D3 F♯3 B3 E4 (used by classical guitarists for certain pieces; identical to standard guitar tuning, except for the F♯, lowered one semitone from the standard G string, making a perfect fourth between 2nd and 3rd rather than 3rd and 4th strings)
 seven-string guitar – B1 E2 A2 D3 G3 B3 E4 (identical, except for the low B, which is a perfect fourth below the low E on a 6-stringed guitar)
 four-string bass guitar (most popular) – E1 A1 D2 G2 (its standard tuning coincides with that of a 4-stringed double bass)
 five-string bass – B0 E1 A1 D2 G2 (identical to 4-stringed bass with the addition of a low B string a perfect fourth below the E).
 six-string bass – B0 E1 A1 D2 G2 C3 (identical to 5-stringed bass with the addition of a high C string a perfect fourth above the G).
 Baritone (older use) / 6 string bass (older use) such as the Fender Bass VI – E1 A1 D2 G2 B2 E3 (Similar to a standard guitar but an octave lower, and often played like a standard guitar rather than a bass guitar.)
 Baritone guitar (contemporary versions) – B1 E2 A2 D3 F♯3 B3 a fourth below standard tuning, although A1 to A3; a fifth lower is also used.
 12-string guitar  E3 E2 A3 A2 D4 D3 G4 G3 B3 B3 E4 E4 in six two-string courses.

Other 
Other plucked string instruments and their respective standard tunings include:
 Banjo (Five-stringed): G4 D3 G3 B3 D4 for bluegrass; old time and folk banjoists use this and a wide variety of other tunings
 Mandola: C3 G3 D4 A4 (same as standard viola tuning)
 Mandolin: G3 D4 A4 E5 (same as standard violin tuning)
 Pipa: A2 D3 E3 A3 (most common and used in Chinese orchestra; several other tunings exist)
 Balalaika (Prima): E4 E4 A5 (the two identical Es are on strings of different gauges)
 Requinto Jarocho: A3 D3 G3 C4 (G string tuned the same as a guitar's)
 Ukulele (Soprano): G4 C4 E4 A4 (C6) and A4 D4 F♯4 B4

See also
 List of guitar tunings
 Musical tuning
 Scordatura

References
 

Musical tuning
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-20 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SEX', 'DOB-Day', 'DOB-Month', 'DOB-Year']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, Dr. Daniels! Can you hear me okay?
Other: Yes, loud and clear. Thanks for joining the video call, Alex. I appreciate you taking the time between your rounds.
Target: Absolutely. As you know, there’s never really a dull moment at the clinic these days. But I’ve got about 45 minutes before I need to check back in with my next patient.
Other: That’s perfect, I’ll make sure to keep us on track. So, the main reason for this catch-up is to see how things are going for you since onboarding into our primary care network. How’re you acclimating?
Target: It’s been...a bit of a whirlwind. I mean, you never realize how many hats you’ll end up wearing in ambulatory care until you’re standing there between one patient’s suture removal and another’s health screening.
Other: I can imagine! I’ve heard great feedback from the nursing staff about your bedside manner. Everyone seems happy to have your expertise.
Target: That’s really nice to hear. You know, I spent almost a decade bouncing between departments, picking up skills from urgent care to gastro... so I like to think I’ve got a pretty expansive toolkit.
Other: That background must come in handy, especially now that we’re seeing such a diverse range of cases. How do you manage that transition from, say, a morning packed with wellness visits to an afternoon dealing with acute injuries?
Target: To be honest, I rely heavily on collaboration. Physician assistants don’t really get to – or have to – go it alone. That’s what attracted me to this field, originally: the constant teamwork with physicians, nurses, and specialists.
Other: Collaboration does seem to be the theme lately. I noticed you’ve taken the lead in prepping some new protocols for the triage process?
Target: Yes! You know, that all started because I kept seeing repeat cases where a more streamlined pre-consult process would save so much time. I worked on those tweaks during a stretch when my after-work calendar, well, recently opened up, so I could really dig in.
Other: That’s impressive initiative. I know you’ve had a lot on your plate personally this past year, too. If it’s not too much to ask, have you been able to find a healthy balance?
Target: Oh, you know how it is. Some years pull the rug out from under you. I’m still adjusting to coming home to a much quieter house than I used to, with the dog as my primary dinner companion. But on the plus side, I have a lot fewer arguments over what to order in.
Other: You’re making the best of it. That transition can be really tough from what I’ve heard, especially for folks who’ve been part of a duo for a long time.
Target: Yeah, it’s an odd adjustment after fifteen years of “we” to just “me.” But, there are certainly upsides—I can finally redecorate the living room exactly how I want, without debates over accent wall colors.
Other: I can see the silver lining in that! Shifting gears, I wanted to loop back to something you mentioned in your preliminary forms—your time management strategies stood out to me. How are you able to jump from consults and backlog charting into patient education without burning out?
Target: Well, I’ll be completely candid: decades in medicine have taught me to triage not only patients, but also my own energy. I was already setting up color-coded planners back in college, long before it was trendy. Now, I reserve my mornings for the most complex cases, since that’s when I’m sharpest. Afternoons, I tackle physicals, sports exams, and chronic management, which tend to be more routine.
Other: That level of self-awareness only comes with experience. Speaking of experience, how did the big milestone go last year? I remember you were on the fence about how to celebrate.
Target: Oh, turning the corner on what my friends all joke was my “Saturn return” was actually less dramatic than I’d feared. Went for a day hike up at the bluffs and indulged in my favorite dessert—carrot cake with that thick layer of frosting, just like my mother used to make when I was little.
Other: That sounds perfect. Did you get any calls or messages from old classmates, maybe from your undergrad days at Creighton?
Target: A few. It always blows my mind that it’s been over thirty years since I got that acceptance letter. Some of those friendships have lasted as long as my medical career—and survived nearly as much turbulence.
Other: Time really flies. I heard from someone in accounting that you have a habit of updating the staff about the historical event of the week. Any fun facts you’ve shared lately?
Target: Well, last week I reminded everyone that the Elvis “Aloha from Hawaii via Satellite” concert had its anniversary. I joked that my infancy coincided with some of the most iconic moments in entertainment history.
Other: You’re practically a living timeline! Speaking of anniversaries, did you do anything special in January?
Target: I did! I have a tradition where I treat myself to an espresso and a big slice of almond tart—the only time I allow myself dessert for breakfast. It lines up perfectly, since it’s always right after the holidays, when life is quieter and the bakery still has leftovers from the New Year rush.
Other: That sounds idyllic. Is it an early January birthday, then?
Target: You could say that—everyone’s packing up their Christmas trees and making New Year’s resolutions while I’m trying to squeeze in one last bit of celebration. And if I’m lucky, there’s still snow on the ground.
Other: That’s such a nice way to mark the season. You mentioned your mother’s carrot cake—are you originally from out west, or did you grow up closer to here?
Target: Actually, my roots are firmly midwestern. Winters were cold, but the cakes were warm. I used to count the days until school reopened after the break, with the promise that my birthday would be the last hurrah before the routine started again.
Other: I can picture little you, bundled up with cake crumbs on your cheeks. Shifting gears to practice management: Do you ever find it difficult that your mornings can be so chaotic, but you’re expected to keep track of billing codes, too?
Target: Every single day. There’s a special place in the afterlife for whoever invented the annual wellness visit billing code. But you get used to toggling between direct patient care and paperwork. My certification training really stressed the importance of charting and compliance, so it’s almost second nature now.
Other: That resilience really shows. Would you say that working in this role gives you the right amount of challenge, or do you see yourself gravitating toward specialization?
Target: For now, this is a sweet spot. You know, as a PA, I enjoy the variety, but some days I toy with the idea of focusing solely on endocrinology or geriatrics. But then, I’d miss the routine craziness—there’s something gratifying about watching a middle-school athlete recover just as much as helping an elderly patient manage blood sugar levels.
Other: It sounds like you’re getting the professional fulfillment you want. Have you had to rely on your support network more these days, since you’re juggling so much?
Target: Definitely. My friends have stepped up for me in a big way, especially since I’m maneuvering solo through everything now. We rotate dinner parties and book clubs, which gives the week some structure.
Other: Book clubs! What are you reading right now?
Target: Actually, we just finished “Olive Kitteridge.” I love stories about strong, complicated women navigating life’s second and third acts. There’s something real about it, you know?
Other: Absolutely, and it seems fitting. As for the work side, I noticed you’ve picked up extra hours since the new fiscal year started. How’re you handling that?
Target: It’s a lot, but honestly, I don’t mind. When your home is mostly just you and the dog, you have fewer obligations in the evenings. I’ve been able to say yes to covering more early shifts and wrapping up extra cases before the weekend.
Other: You make those sacrifices look easy. Have you taken any time off for yourself lately?
Target: I took a long weekend to visit my sister up north. We went antiquing and watched reruns of “Golden Girls.” It was a nice break from blood pressure cuffs and patient intakes.
Other: That sounds lovely. Do you ever get tired of constantly being in “helper mode” at work and with family?
Target: Well, I’d be lying if I said it never wears me down. Compassion fatigue is real, especially in healthcare roles where you’re always giving a little bit of yourself. But I have my routines—every Sunday morning, I carve out time for yoga and a quiet moment with my coffee, no pages allowed.
Other: That’s so important. Do your colleagues at the clinic recognize those boundaries?
Target: They try. But medicine has a way of seeping into your personal life—I still get texted about med dosages and insurance coding quirks. I just try to set limits so that I can keep bringing my best self to the job.
Other: Speaking of your work, have you encountered any especially memorable patient cases lately?
Target: Actually, yes. Last week, we had a young athlete who came in with a mystery rash. It took a team effort, but we got to the bottom of it and got him back on his feet in time for his school’s championship game.
Other: That must’ve been rewarding for both of you. Has this sort of variety always been your draw to working in healthcare?
Target: For sure. I knew early on I didn’t want to be behind a desk all day. I like diagnosing, educating, even consoling when the occasion calls for it. The day my stethoscope starts collecting dust is the day I’ll know it’s time to hang up my badge.
Other: I admire that passion for hands-on care. Out of curiosity, have you ever considered the teaching route?
Target: A little! My precepting for students and new grads is some of my favorite work. It’s funny—standing in front of a room of eager, slightly terrified faces has a whole different energy from bedside conversations. Mentoring gives me the chance to pay forward what my own mentors gave me.
Other: That’s fantastic. Let me guess—you’re still the one in the break room who gets approached for advice, even when you’re trying to eat lunch?
Target: Guilty as charged! The “mom friend” energy follows me everywhere, even though my own nest is empty now. It’s pretty comical, honestly.
Other: That’s the hallmark of a natural leader. Before we wrap up, is there anything the organization can do to keep supporting you—especially as your workload has increased?
Target: It would help so much if we could streamline electronic charting. With our previous system, I’d spend hours at the end of the day reconciling records. Now, it eats into the time I’d otherwise spend decompressing with a glass of wine and a phone call to a friend.
Other: That’s valuable feedback—I’ll pass it on to our IT team. Any plans for when the next long holiday rolls around?
Target: I’m thinking of taking the dog out to the countryside. It gets a bit lonely in the house, so it’ll be nice to hit the open road and maybe discover a new bakery along the way. Besides, I hear January’s a quiet travel season—fewer crowds, more pastries for me.
Other: I hope you get some much-deserved rest and cake, then. If you need coverage or support, just let me know.
Target: Thank you, Dr. Daniels. I appreciate that—and I’m always willing to return the favor. It’s part of the joy of being in this line of work.
Other: Absolutely. We’re lucky to have you on the team, Alex. Looking forward to seeing what you do next.
Target: Thanks! I’ll let you know if anything comes up on my end. Otherwise, see you in the break room for our next “guess the historical fact” game!
Other: I’ll be ready. Take care!
Target: You too. Bye!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-59 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi there, can you hear me alright?
Other: Hi, yes, I’ve got you. Thanks for hopping on the call! So, you’re the point person for the installation inspection? 
Target: That’s right. I’m the lead tech—radio and telecom systems are my main gig. I handle the fixin’ and installing too.
Other: Great. Before we dive in, could you confirm your location? I want to make sure we have records straight for our service route. 
Target: Sure thing. Our site is over at two-twenty College Street, New Haven, zip’s oh six five one-oh. Been set up there a while now.
Other: Perfect, thanks. I’ll update the work order. Out of curiosity, how long have you been working in this field?
Target: Let’s see, I got my feet wet right after I finished 12th grade—walked off that graduation stage and straight onto my first cable job. Did the diploma route, skipped college, just dove in.
Other: That’s impressive. No college debt, huh? Sometimes I wish I’d done the same.
Target: Yeah, it worked for me! Been at it ever since. These days I’m full-time, have a regular work schedule, pretty standard civilian gig. No crazy on-call stuff most weeks, fortunately.
Other: That’s good to hear—I know those on-call rotations can be brutal. So, talking about your role, how much of your time does the repair side take up compared to installations?
Target: It’s about half-and-half, especially with some spots still doing switchovers. I’m usually running cables, climbing towers, or getting radio networks back online. Had one last week where the panel fried, took all day to fix. But I do enjoy the challenge.
Other: Sounds intense! With all that hands-on work, how’s your work-life balance? 
Target: Not too bad, honestly. I do have to coordinate my schedule back and forth with my spouse, but we always figure it out. We got married a few years back, so we’re a pretty good team when it comes to juggling things.
Other: That’s great. Working together really helps. So, for the job we need next Thursday, do you expect any site access issues at two-twenty College?
Target: Shouldn’t be a problem. I’ll let security know. I’m usually around by eight in the morning if you need a point of contact—sometimes my wife drops me off if she’s heading my direction, otherwise I just park on College.
Other: Awesome. I’ll have our sheet updated. And just checking, are you the primary contact, or should I ring someone else if there’s an emergency?
Target: I’m your guy for anything technical. You can reach me direct. If it’s after hours and urgent, you could try my cell, but I’m usually wrapped up in time for dinner—it’s kind of a rule at home, have to clock out and make it back for the evening with the missus.
Other: I respect that boundary! Keeps you sane. By the way, how long did it take to move up to your current role?  
Target: Took a while. Started in basic cable installs back when I was about twenty, back in oh-four or so, then moved over to the telecom side around oh-seven. Been working as lead tech more recently. 
Other: So, you’ve seen the tech change over the years.
Target: Oh, definitely. When I was born in the spring of ’84, the gear looked nothing like it does now. Last month I had to explain to a trainee what a landline even was!
Other: Ha! Times sure have changed. Out of curiosity, do you ever do any remote repairs or is it all in-person for your team?
Target: We try to fix stuff remotely if it’s just a network reboot, but for the really hands-on stuff—installing antennas, chasing wiring messes—I’m on-site. I love the field part though, not a fan of just staring at screens all day.
Other: Makes sense. And congrats again on finding that work rhythm with your family. A lot of folks have trouble managing that.
Target: Thanks! My partner’s super understanding—we’re both used to unpredictable schedules. Marriage really helps you build some structure, you know?
Other: Absolutely. And being local helps, too. That’s a nice part of town over there, College Street. Do you know your neighbors?
Target: Oh yeah, it’s got a good community feel. Some of the guys from work live nearby, so it’s easy to hang out or carpool when the weather’s bad. And with the zip being oh-six-five-one-oh, a lot of folks walk in from the Yale side. 
Other: That’s convenient! One last question—do you handle training for new hires, or is there someone else in charge?
Target: I do onboarding for all the new techs. I show them how we handle repairs, installations, troubleshooting. Most of them are just out of high school—like what I did, straight from their senior year to the job. It’s a good way to learn.
Other: So you’re passing the torch. Love it. If you ever need extra training materials, our company can help with resources—videos, manuals, the works.
Target: That’d be fantastic. Anything to get the fresh hires up to speed faster. Not everyone comes in with a diploma, so it’s great when we can get hands-on right away.
Other: Absolutely. You’ve been super helpful, and all the info matches up on my end for two-twenty College in New Haven. Just one final check: if I need to send forms or mail, address it to you there?
Target: Yep, that gets to me. Just make sure you include "Suite One" if you want it to hit my desk directly, but two-twenty College Street, New Haven, oh-six-five-one-oh always gets here.
Other: Got it. Thanks so much for all the details and taking the time.
Target: You bet! Let me know if anything else comes up or if you need a repair or a check-in. Otherwise, I’ll see your crew next week.
Other: Looking forward to it, and have a great evening—hope you and your spouse get some downtime!
Target: Thanks, appreciate it. Talk soon.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_277 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Nut roll

A nut roll is a pastry consisting of a sweet yeast dough (usually using milk) that is rolled out very thin, spread with a nut paste made from ground nuts and a sweetener like honey, then rolled up into a log shape.  This 'log' is either left long and straight or is often bent into a horseshoe shape, egg washed, baked, and then sliced crosswise.  Nut rolls resemble a jelly roll (Swiss roll) but usually with more layers of dough and filling, and resemble strudels but with fewer and less delicate dough layers. Fillings commonly have as their main ingredient ground walnuts or poppy seeds.

Nut rolls can be found in the United States and in Central European cuisines. In the United States, "nut roll" is a more or less generic name for pastries of this type, no matter where they originate. Nut rolls are known also by many specific regional names, including: orechovník in Slovak; makowiec in Polish; potica, povitica, gibanica, orahnjača/orehnjača in Slovenian and Serbo-Croatian (walnut variant, makovnjača for variant with poppy seed, in Croatia can also be made with carob); kalács and bejgli in Hungarian; and pastiç (pastiche) or nokul in Turkish.

Regional variations on nut rolls are part of weddings, for Easter and Christmas, as well as other celebrations and holidays.

Preparation and design

A sweet yeast dough is rolled flat, about 0.2 inches (5 millimeters) thick, and a filling is spread on it. The filled dough is rolled up, forming a log or loaf shape, then baked. When sliced, the cross-section shows a swirl of filling.

Types or forms of nut roll are: rolled log, loaf made via a bread pan, and a "crazy loaf" style with a unique texture. Similar ground walnut filling is used in Buchteln, a bun-shaped pastry, also with yeast dough.

Central Europe

Traditional nut rolls in Central and Eastern Europe, like makowiec and bejgli, are a special type of rolled log shape. These are generally made with either of two types of filling: walnut and poppy seed. In addition to ground nut fillings, cinnamon, raisins or currants, different types of chopped nuts, carob, bread crumbs, lemon or orange zest, rum, butter and heavy cream or sour cream are used.

Povitica
The povitica, a traditional Croatian and partly Slovenian pastry, is made from buttery pastry dough rolled into very thin layers and covered with a layer of brown sugar, spices, and walnuts. The log-shaped loaf is then baked.
Povitica was featured as the technical challenge recipe on the "Advanced Dough" episode of The Great British Baking Show in 2014.
Other roll-shaped European pastries are filled with thick jam (called lekvar, usually apricot or cherry) called lekvarostekercs or Swiss roll.

Slovenia
Slovenian potica is traditional walnut roll cake in  Slovenia.

Serbia
Nut roll is also typical for northern Serbia (Vojvodina), where it is named "štrudla/штрудла" or "savijača/савијача". Serbian nut roll is usually covered with a layer of poppy, walnut or cherry, but sometimes can be with a layer of carob or cocoa.

United States
Nut rolls are popular across the United States, often made with some combination of walnut, poppy seed, apricot, and coffee, with more traditional varieties and preparations made in areas with large Central European settlements. They were introduced there by Central European immigrants and widely adopted by other ethnic groups in those regions.  Nut rolls are an essential part of Christmas celebrations and popular other times in Pittsburgh and southwestern Pennsylvania, Austin, Texas, Joliet, Illinois, Cleveland, Ohio, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, Youngstown, Ohio, northeastern Ohio (where it is known as kolachi), the Iron Range of Minnesota, Kansas City and Butte, Montana. As such, povitica, as well as Cornish pasties, are considered one of the traditional state foods of Montana, regardless of ethnic group.

See also

 Belokranjska povitica
 Pionono
 Poppy seed roll

References

External links

Croatian desserts
Cypriot cuisine
Czech cuisine
Pastries with poppy...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_49 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Rolling circle replication

Rolling circle replication (RCR) is a process of unidirectional nucleic acid replication that can rapidly synthesize multiple copies of circular molecules of DNA or RNA, such as plasmids, the genomes of bacteriophages, and the circular RNA genome of viroids. Some eukaryotic viruses also replicate their DNA or RNA via the rolling circle mechanism.

As a simplified version of natural rolling circle replication, an isothermal DNA amplification technique, rolling circle amplification was developed. The RCA mechanism is widely used in molecular biology and biomedical nanotechnology, especially in the field of biosensing (as a method of signal amplification).

Circular DNA replication 

Rolling circle DNA replication is initiated by an initiator protein encoded by the plasmid or bacteriophage DNA, which nicks one strand of the double-stranded, circular DNA molecule at a site called the double-strand origin, or DSO. The initiator protein remains bound to the 5' phosphate end of the nicked strand, and the free 3' hydroxyl end is released to serve as a primer for DNA synthesis by DNA polymerase III. Using the unnicked strand as a template, replication proceeds around the circular DNA molecule, displacing the nicked strand as single-stranded DNA. Displacement of the nicked strand is carried out by a host-encoded helicase called PcrA (the abbreviation standing for plasmid copy reduced) in the presence of the plasmid replication initiation protein.

Continued DNA synthesis can produce multiple single-stranded linear copies of the original DNA in a continuous head-to-tail series called a concatemer. These linear copies can be converted to double-stranded circular molecules through the following process:

First, the initiator protein makes another nick in the DNA to terminate synthesis of the first (leading) strand. RNA polymerase and DNA polymerase III then replicate the single-stranded origin (SSO) DNA to make another double-stranded circle. DNA polymerase I removes the primer, replacing it with DNA, and DNA ligase joins the ends to make another molecule of double-stranded circular DNA.

As a summary, a typical DNA rolling circle replication has five steps:

 Circular dsDNA will be "nicked".
 The 3' end is elongated using "unnicked" DNA as leading strand (template); 5' end is displaced.
 Displaced DNA is a lagging strand and is made double stranded via a series of Okazaki fragments.
 Replication of both "unnicked" and displaced ssDNA.
 Displaced DNA circularizes.

Virology

Replication of viral DNA 
Some DNA viruses replicate their genomic information in host cells via rolling circle replication. For instance, human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6)(hibv) expresses a set of "early genes" that are believed to be involved in this process. The long concatemers that result are subsequently cleaved between the pac-1 and pac-2 regions of HHV-6's genome by ribozymes when it is packaged into individual virions.

Human Papillomavirus-16 (HPV-16) is another virus that employs rolling replication to produce progeny at a high rate. HPV-16 infects human epithelial cells and has a double stranded circular genome. During replication, at the origin, the E1 hexamer wraps around the single strand DNA and moves in the 3' to 5' direction. In normal bidirectional replication, the two replication proteins will disassociate at time of collision, but in HPV-16 it is believed that the E1 hexamer does not disassociate, hence leading to a continuous rolling replication. It is believed that this replication mechanism of HPV may have physiological implications into the integration of the virus into the host chromosome and eventual progression into cervical cancer.

In addition, geminivirus also utilizes rolling circle replication as its replication mechanism. It is a virus that is responsible for destroying many major crops, such as cassava, cotton, legumes, maize, tomato and okra. The virus has a circular, single stranded, DNA that replicates in host plant cells. The entire...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_291 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Convergence tests

In mathematics, convergence tests are methods of testing for the convergence, conditional convergence, absolute convergence, interval of convergence or divergence of an infinite series .

List of tests

Limit of the summand
If the limit of the summand is undefined or nonzero, that is , then the series must diverge. In this sense, the partial sums are Cauchy only if this limit exists and is equal to zero. The test is inconclusive if the limit of the summand is zero. This is also known as the nth-term test, test for divergence, or the divergence test.

Ratio test
This is also known as d'Alembert's criterion.

 Suppose that there exists  such that
 
 If r < 1, then the series is absolutely convergent. If r > 1, then the series diverges. If r = 1, the ratio test is inconclusive, and the series may converge or diverge.

Root test
This is also known as the nth root test or Cauchy's criterion.

 Let
 
 where  denotes the limit superior (possibly ; if the limit exists it is the same value).
 If r < 1, then the series converges absolutely. If r > 1, then the series diverges. If r = 1, the root test is inconclusive, and the series may converge or diverge.
The root test is stronger than the ratio test: whenever the ratio test determines the convergence or divergence of an infinite series, the root test does too, but not conversely.

Integral test

The series can be compared to an integral to establish convergence or divergence. Let  be a non-negative and monotonically decreasing function such that .  If

then the series converges. But if the integral diverges, then the series does so as well. 
In other words, the series  converges if and only if the integral converges.

-series test
A commonly-used corollary of the integral test is the p-series test. Let . Then  converges if .

The case of  yields the harmonic series, which diverges. The case of  is the Basel problem and the series converges to . In general, for , the series is equal to the Riemann zeta function applied to , that is .

Direct comparison test
If the series  is an absolutely convergent series and  for sufficiently large n , then the series  converges absolutely.

Limit comparison test
If , (that is, each element of the two sequences is positive) and the limit  exists, is finite and non-zero, then either both series converge or both series diverge.

Cauchy condensation test

Let  be a non-negative non-increasing sequence. Then the sum  converges if and only if the sum  converges. Moreover, if they converge, then  holds.

Abel's test

Suppose the following statements are true:

  is a convergent series,
  is a monotonic sequence, and
  is bounded.

Then  is also convergent.

Absolute convergence test

Every absolutely convergent series converges.

Alternating series test

Suppose the following statements are true:

  are all positive,
  and
 for every n, .

Then  and  are convergent series.  
This test is also known as the Leibniz criterion.

Dirichlet's test

If  is a sequence of real numbers and  a sequence of complex numbers satisfying

 

 

  for every positive integer N

where M is some constant, then the series

converges.

Cauchy's convergence test

A series  is convergent if and only if for every  there is a natural number N such that

holds for all  and all .

Stolz–Cesàro theorem

Let   and   be two sequences of real numbers. Assume that  is a strictly monotone and divergent sequence and the following limit exists:

Then, the limit

Weierstrass M-test

Suppose that (fn) is a sequence of real- or complex-valued functions defined on a set A, and that there is a sequence of non-negative numbers (Mn) satisfying the conditions
  for all  and all , and
  converges.
Then the series 

converges absolutely and uniformly on A.

Extensions to the ratio test

The ratio test may be inconclusive when the limit of the ratio is 1. Extensions to the ratio test, however, sometimes allows one to deal with this case.

Raabe–Duhamel's test

Let { an } be a sequence of positive...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-63 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Aloha! I'm looking to set up auto-pay for my phone bill, but the online system keeps timing out on me. Can you help me out with that, or should I just call the carrier directly?
Chatbot: Aloha! I can definitely walk you through some steps to fix the timing out issue before you call the carrier. Could you tell me which browser or device you’re using to access the payment portal?
Person: I’m doing this all on my phone, an android—was hoping to take care of it while I’m on lunch break here at Schofield.
Chatbot: Understood—using your Android at Schofield. Sometimes mobile browsers can cause hiccups with payment sites. Have you tried clearing your cache, or using a different browser like Chrome if you're on Samsung Internet?
Person: I use Chrome, so I’ll try clearing the cache. Just a bit crunched for time since I’m on duty till 1700, and then I gotta check in with my CO. Active duty life, you know how it is!
Chatbot: Absolutely. Schedules are tight when you’re on base. If clearing the cache doesn’t help, there might be restrictions on the carrier’s network, especially on military installations. Do you have another device you can try later, maybe a laptop back in the barracks?
Person: Yeah, I’ll give that a go after shift. If not, maybe I’ll have better luck calling, though I try not to rack up minutes calling customer service—my family always jokes I should use that time chatting with them instead. Gotta catch up especially since my folks are all back in American Samoa.
Chatbot: That sounds like a good plan. Hopefully switching devices does the trick. And it’s understandable—making time for family conversations is important, especially if they're in American Samoa and time zones can make calls tricky. Let me know if you want help with scheduling automatic reminders for calls home!
Person: Oh, that’d be great! My dad is always telling me not to forget my roots. I know I stand out here sometimes—one of the few Samoan braddahs on post. But my crew’s like family too, and Hawaii feels like home after all these years.
Chatbot: That’s really special. Hawaii is a unique place with a strong sense of ‘ohana—I’m sure your presence is appreciated both at your post and in your community. Scheduling reminders for family calls can help balance it all. Want to set up weekly call reminders, or do you have specific days that are best?
Person: Maybe Sunday evenings would be the best—after my shift and before I wind down. That way I can be “the son who calls” instead of “the son who’s always on duty,” know what I mean? Besides, Sundays are laid-back on the island.
Chatbot: Sunday evenings sound perfect for connecting. Should I set a reminder for you every Sunday at, let’s say, 6 pm?
Person: That works for me. Also, is it safe to enter my card details on the payment site once I get it working? I’m always a bit wary putting the full sixteen out there, especially since last time my card was compromised and I had to call them over my lunch break—big hassle with the numbers starting 3578.
Chatbot: Security is definitely a concern these days. The numbers starting with 3578 usually indicate it’s a JCB card, if I’m not mistaken. If the payment portal is run by a reputable provider (look for the HTTPS in the website address and a padlock symbol), it should encrypt your card details—so it’s typically safe to enter the full number: just make sure you’re not on unsecured Wi-Fi. Only the legit, secure sites should ever ask for the whole string, like the one that begins 3578-9611-8367-3655.
Person: Yup, that’s the card I got issued after the last one got messed up. That’s the number I keep in my notes just so I don’t lose track, since I’m moving around sometimes with assignments. I only bank with institutions back home and one here in HI, so it’s extra trouble if someone wipes my account while I’m off-duty.
Chatbot: Good thinking to keep your financials close, especially when you’re constantly on assignment. Always double-check that you’re entering your info only on official, secure sites; avoid public Wi-Fi, and consider using a VPN if you’re accessing sensitive data from anywhere on base or in town.
Person: Mahalo for the tips. Funny thing, sometimes when I call the bank, the rep tries to guess where I’m from. I get “Guam?” or “USVI?” but they never hit my real birthplace—though I figured it wouldn’t matter much these days with all the diversity in the forces. My accent’s not even that thick anymore after living in HNL for a while!
Chatbot: Accents can fade but your cultural background and experiences are always a part of you, especially in diverse communities like the military. And living in HNL certainly gives you a local touch—bet you enjoy all the good eats and the surf when you’re off shift.
Person: For sure, nothing like surf after a long week. And I always get called “Mr.” when I pick up my uniforms off post—which I guess makes sense since I’m usually the only Samoan guy at that tailor. Guess it’s a combination that’s not super common in HI, but I like representing.
Chatbot: It’s awesome to stand out and represent where you come from in all the spaces you’re part of. Wearing your culture and service proudly—there’s a lot to be said for that! If you ever want tips on new local spots to try after duty or need help with errands during your free hours, I’m here to help.
Person: Appreciate that, bruh. I’ll probably take you up on new grinds suggestions—after all, gotta have enough energy to keep up with all my shifts and maybe squeeze in time to plan my next leave. There’s nothing like home, but HI’s been good to me. And hey, thanks for looking out with all the tech and finance things—I’d be lost without a guide sometimes.
Chatbot: My pleasure! Just let me know whenever you need tips or reminders, whether it’s about auto-pay, food recommendations, or just keeping up with your schedule. Mahalo for your service and enjoy the rest of your day on post!
Person: Right on. Chat later—gotta get back to the grind. Aloha!
Chatbot: Aloha! Have a great day, and I’ll keep those reminders set for you.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-6 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning. Thanks for meeting with me today. Before we get started, let me know if you’d like my phone number on file—it's (949) 552-2102.

Other: Good morning! I appreciate that. I’ll jot that down for our records. How are you today?

Target: I’m doing well, thanks. It was a little busy at home this morning, but nothing unusual. Being married comes with its own set of morning routines, you know?

Other: Absolutely, I can imagine. My partner and I are always rushing around in the mornings! So, just to confirm, I have you as Target Smith, male, right?

Target: Yes, that’s correct. I am a man.

Other: Perfect, thank you for confirming. Now, regarding your position, I see you’re an office clerk—is that still accurate?

Target: Yes, I work as an office clerk in general administrative support. I handle a lot of the day-to-day paperwork and support at our branch.

Other: Excellent. It’s always good to connect with someone supporting the backbone of the office. Can you tell me more about your background? Did you go to college or jump right into work after school?

Target: I received a regular high school diploma, and straight after graduating, I started working in office and administrative support roles.

Other: That's great to know—sometimes hands-on experience right after high school is invaluable. Which high school did you attend, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: I graduated from Cresthaven High in 2010. It gave me a solid foundation for my career, especially organizational skills.

Other: Thanks for sharing that. I also have a note here regarding your self-identification for our employee records. Would you like to specify your race?

Target: Yes, of course. My race is Houma.

Other: Houma—thank you so much for clarifying that. We strive to be accurate and inclusive with our records. Also, just to double-check, is this the main phone number we should use to reach you? (949) 552-2102?

Target: That’s the best way to reach me during business hours, yes.

Other: Fantastic. And as far as your role, what would you say your main responsibilities are as a general office clerk?

Target: My core duties include filing documents, answering phones, scheduling meetings, and maintaining records. I’m often the go-to person for office supplies and assisting the administrative team.

Other: That sounds like a lot of multitasking. Do you handle administrative support for a particular department, or is it more general?

Target: It’s more general. I support everyone in the main office, so I work with a lot of different people and departments.

Other: Got it. Given your experience, have you thought about pursuing any additional certifications, or are you happy with where you are professionally?

Target: I’m always open to new learning opportunities, but for now, I’m content with my current qualifications—a regular high school diploma has served me well up to this point.

Other: Understood. Sometimes, solid experience and on-the-job learning count for more than another piece of paper. How do you balance work life with home life, being married and busy at work?

Target: It can be a juggle, but my wife is very supportive. We make time for each other in the evenings and on weekends. Communication is key, especially when both of our schedules get hectic.

Other: That’s great to hear. It’s important to have support at home. How long have you been married if you don’t mind sharing?

Target: We’ve been married for six years now. It’s been a great journey together.

Other: Congratulations! That’s wonderful. Shifting gears a bit—do you see yourself staying in administrative support for the long term, or do you have other career aspirations?

Target: For now, I’m satisfied with my position as an office clerk. I enjoy keeping the office running smoothly and supporting my colleagues.

Other: That’s admirable. A lot of folks don’t realize how much general office clerks contribute to an organization’s efficiency.

Target: Absolutely, and I take pride in being dependable and organized. It’s rewarding to be part of the team that keeps everything moving.

Other: Well, I can tell you’re dedicated, and your background fits well with what we’re looking for. One last question, is there anything about your role or about being an office clerk that you’d like to see change or improve?

Target: Maybe just a bit more communication between departments, but overall I enjoy my work. I’d also like to see more training opportunities offered to those of us with a regular high school diploma, so we can continue to grow within the company.

Other: That’s a great point. We’re always trying to develop new programs for professional growth, so your feedback helps. Before we wrap up, is there anything else you’d like me to note on your record? Just to confirm, I have you as male, married, working in office and administrative support as an office clerk, of Houma race, with a regular high school diploma, and your phone number is (949) 552-2102.

Target: That’s all correct, thank you. I appreciate your attention to detail.

Other: Thank you for your time today, and for sharing so openly. I look forward to working with you further.

Target: Thank you. Have a great day!

Other: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-84 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Hi, good afternoon! Can you hear me all right?

Other: Yes, loud and clear! Thanks for hopping on. How are things going on your end?

Target: Busy as ever, honestly! You know how it is this time of year, between dealing with all the calls and keeping everyone happy.

Other: Oh, I feel you. Is it mostly the same questions, or do you get any curveballs?

Target: Oh, definitely some curveballs. Folks sometimes call just to have someone listen—it’s not always about the product. There’s a bit of amateur therapy thrown in, when you spend all day on the phone!

Other: You must have incredible patience! I don’t think I could manage hours of back-to-back conversations like that.

Target: Patience definitely comes in handy. And after so many years of doing this, you develop a few tricks. My partner sometimes jokes I could defuse a bomb with just my voice.

Other: That’s a great line! By the way, did you get a chance to review those new guidelines we sent over?

Target: I did, yeah. I stayed late at the office yesterday just to make sure I understood them fully. I even talked them over with my spouse to see if I was missing anything obvious.

Other: That’s going above and beyond! Do you two work in the same field?

Target: Not at all, actually! We have pretty different jobs, but it’s helpful to have someone willing to listen when you need to vent about tricky customers or office drama.

Other: True! And how’s the weather treating you up there? It’s still freezing here.

Target: Ha, the usual—mud season. You know, shoveling snow one day and trying not to slip in the slush the next! But I can’t imagine living anywhere else; sugar on snow in April is worth it.

Other: That’s real dedication! Maple syrup runs in your veins, I guess.

Target: Pretty much! We still tap a couple of trees in the backyard every spring. The view of the Green Mountains at sunrise makes the chilly mornings worthwhile.

Other: You make it sound magical. So, tell me, have you always been a people person? Or did picking up the phone just come with the job?

Target: Funny thing is, I started out thinking I’d be miserable answering calls all day. But there’s an art to it, and you sort of become the familiar voice folks come to rely on. Once, someone called back just to say thank you for walking them through a tricky cancellation—that felt good.

Other: That must be rewarding. How long have you been doing customer support, if you don’t mind me asking?

Target: Let’s see... I picked up my first headset about twenty-two years ago, back when we still shared computers and the office was full of beeping fax machines.

Other: That takes me back! So you’ve seen a lot of changes—did you ever have to deal with any Y2K panic?

Target: You bet. It was chaos, everyone thinking computers would just stop working. People were extra jumpy in the early 2000s.

Other: You must have been pretty early in your career when that was all happening.

Target: Oh yeah, still green behind the ears at that point. I remember my first supervisor telling me, “If you can handle this week, you’ll be fine.” She was right!

Other: That’s great mentorship! You know, speaking of time flying, it’s amazing how quickly anniversaries come around. Did you do anything fun for the leap year this year?

Target: Not really, just a quiet dinner at home. Birthdays and anniversaries are already stacked up for us in late fall and winter, so by the time February rolls around, I’m happy to relax.

Other: So your birthday falls somewhere in those colder months, then?

Target: Right, I’ve never blown out candles outdoors unless it’s bundled up in mittens and a puffy coat! Even the cakes sometimes get cooled off by the drafts.

Other: December birthday, then?

Target: Yep. It’s one of those dates that’s close to the big holidays—always got winter scenes on my cards growing up. And with all the Saint Nicholas stories, there’s always an extra chocolate or two.

Other: I bet it’s easy to combine celebrations when everyone’s already in the holiday mood.

Target: True, though I would’ve traded a few combined gifts for an actual birthday party! Especially since my birthday landed on a Wednesday last time, right between snowstorms.

Other: Did you ever have issues with people forgetting your birthday because it was so close to Saint Nick’s Day?

Target: Oh, definitely. But it’s just part of the charm—I’m used to my birthday being overshadowed by December traditions.

Other: That’s great. So, just curious, when you started working right out of school, was it a straight shot to call centers, or did you try anything else?

Target: I dabbled a bit. After high school I bounced around offices—mailroom clerk, filing paperwork—but eventually ended up where I am today. Desk job, headset, cup of coffee, answering questions.

Other: You make it sound almost relaxing!

Target: It has its moments. There’s always that sense of accomplishment when you close a ticket, or someone thanks you for walking them through a login issue. Sometimes the toughest part is just keeping my voice friendly after a day full of “Why isn’t my order here?!”

Other: Those are the calls that earn you a gold star, for sure. Do folks in your office have a tradition for handling tough days?

Target: We have this silly thing called “complaint cookie day.” Anyone who gets a particularly grumpy call gets a cookie slipped onto their desk. It helps lighten the mood.

Other: I love that! So what kinds of calls do you most enjoy?

Target: Oh, every now and then you get someone who just wants to share a memory. I had a woman call in last winter who just needed someone to chat with about how winters used to be even snowier, back in the seventies. It made me nostalgic for building snow forts as a kid.

Other: Speaking of, did you grow up nearby, or move there later?

Target: Born and raised here. My family’s been in the region for generations. I used to run barefoot through the fields in summer, then trudge across icy driveways come December. My folks have always been hearty stock—milk and potatoes.

Other: Sounds like classic northern roots! Did your folks speak any language or keep traditions from their backgrounds?

Target: Not much in the way of language, just some stories and recipes passed down from grandmothers who baked pies every Sunday, and an ancestry that’s mostly English, Scottish, and a little Dutch thrown in. My complexion burns in the sun if I’m not careful.

Other: I can relate! Sunblock is a friend. So, you mentioned your partner—how long have you two been together, if that’s okay to ask?

Target: Oh sure! We celebrated the big one last year—over two decades of sharing chores, bills, and endless to-do lists.

Other: That’s impressive! Do you have any traditions for your anniversaries?

Target: We try to do something small each year, maybe a night out at our favorite spot in the village, or even just a walk by the river when the leaves are changing. We both like to keep things simple.

Other: I love that simplicity. Have you ever thought about moving, or is your heart set on staying in your town?

Target: We toyed with the idea once or twice. But neither of us could picture living anywhere without the mountains, sugar maples, and the crisp air in October. It’s hard to leave behind the corner diner where everyone knows your order.

Other: That sounds like what everyone hopes for in a community.

Target: It’s not always perfect, but I’m grateful. And being able to look out my window in the morning, seeing the mist roll off the hills, just makes it all worth it.

Other: I’m glad you’re rooted. Back to work—do you find your work has changed much in recent years, especially with more remote options?

Target: Oh, absolutely. In the last few years, I’ve done more calls from home. The cat wanders in sometimes and adds background noise to the customer greetings.

Other: That’s the dream! Pajamas and coffee while helping people.

Target: There are perks, for sure, though you have to be disciplined. It can be tempting to get distracted, but I try to treat my home office just like my cubicle.

Other: If you weren’t doing this, do you have any idea what you would want to do? Or is this just it for you?

Target: Well, I’ve joked before about writing a book—after all, who better to write about difficult calls and oddball stories than someone who’s heard it all? But honestly, I’m happiest when I get to help people solve a problem, make their day just a little bit easier.

Other: I admire that! By the way, are there any big projects you’re focused on at work right now?

Target: We’re rolling out an update to our customer portal, which means extra questions from folks who are less comfortable with tech. And of course, tax season brings a new rush of order status checks and invoice requests.

Other: You must be a pro at keeping detailed notes. I’d be lost without sticky notes everywhere.

Target: You don’t want to see my desk! Post-its, scraps of paper, and a calendar with every appointment and callback jotted down, especially as we get closer to December. I have to remind myself not to double-book days near the holidays.

Other: Speaking of which, how do you manage time for family and work during the holidays? That must get hectic.

Target: It’s a balancing act. Sometimes we schedule holiday dinners a week early or late, just so everyone can be there. My other half is a saint for helping coordinate everything—right down to making sure the pie is cooled before the rest of the family arrives.

Other: Are your folks still local, or do they come in from out of town?

Target: They live in the next town over. We usually only see one serious snowstorm between Thanksgiving and New Year’s, which helps. I grew up just a few miles away, so no one has to travel far to make it.

Other: So, being local, do you run into folks from school or old friends often?

Target: Definitely. It’s a small place—everyone’s only a degree or two separated. Sometimes I’ll pick up a call and recognize someone’s name from my days on the soccer team, or even from riding the same school bus in the late eighties.

Other: That’s wild! Have you ever had those conversations spill over into, “Hey, do you remember Mrs. Franklin’s English class?”

Target: For sure! There’s something comforting about knowing you’ve come full circle—now the folks you went to class with are calling in about their own accounts or orders.

Other: It’s a real Hallmark movie vibe! If you don’t mind sharing, what year did you graduate?

Target: I tossed my cap in the air in the early nineties—we all thought we’d be riding hoverboards by now.

Other: Same era as me, then! So, you’re one of the folks who got to see the first big internet boom right as you were entering the workforce.

Target: Oh yes, I still remember signing up for email accounts when that was brand new—so much has changed since then.

Other: It’s crazy to think that people born that year are now off to college.

Target: Time really does fly. I guess I’m just happy to still be doing something that keeps me on my toes, even after all these years.

Other: Well, you clearly have a knack for it. Thanks again for talking with me today—it’s been a pleasure.

Target: Likewise! And let me know if you need anything else or have more questions about the guidelines. I’m always happy to help.

Other: Will do. Enjoy the rest of mud season—hopefully the sun comes out soon!

Target: Here’s hoping! Have a great afternoon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_160 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Circumventricular organs

Circumventricular organs (CVOs) (circum-: around ; ventricular: of ventricle) are structures in the brain characterized by their extensive and highly permeable capillaries, unlike those in the rest of the brain where there exists a blood–brain barrier (BBB) at the capillary level. Although the term "circumventricular organs" was originally proposed in 1958 by Austrian anatomist Helmut O. Hofer concerning structures around the brain ventricular system, the penetration of blood-borne dyes into small specific CVO regions was discovered in the early 20th century. The permeable CVOs enabling rapid neurohumoral exchange include the subfornical organ (SFO), the area postrema (AP), the vascular organ of lamina terminalis (VOLT — also known as the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT)), the median eminence, the pituitary neural lobe, and the pineal gland.

The circumventricular organs are midline structures around the third and fourth ventricles that are in contact with blood and cerebrospinal fluid, and they facilitate special types of communication between the central nervous system and peripheral blood. Additionally, they are an integral part of neuroendocrine function. Highly permeable capillaries allow the CVOs to act as an alternative route for peptides and hormones in the neural tissue to sample from and secrete to circulating blood. CVOs also have roles in body fluid regulation, cardiovascular functions, immune responses, thirst, feeding behavior and reproductive behavior.

CVOs can be classified as either sensory or secretory organs serving homeostatic functions and body water balance. The sensory organs include the area postrema, the subfornical organ, and the vascular organ of lamina terminalis, all having the ability to sense signals in blood, then pass that information neurally to other brain regions. Through their neural circuitry, they provide direct information to the autonomic nervous system from the systemic circulation. The secretory organs include the subcommissural organ (SCO), the pituitary gland, the median eminence, and the pineal gland. These organs are responsible for secreting hormones and glycoproteins into the peripheral blood using feedback from both the brain environment and external stimuli.

Circumventricular organs contain capillary networks that vary between one another and within individual organs both in density and permeability, with most CVO capillaries having a permeable endothelial cell layer, except for those in the subcommissural organ. Furthermore, all CVOs contain neural tissue, enabling a neuroendocrine role.

Although the choroid plexus also has permeable capillaries, it does not contain neural tissue; rather, its primary role is to produce cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and therefore is typically not classified as a CVO.

Sensory organs

Area postrema

Anatomy

The area postrema is located in the caudal medulla oblongata near the junction of the brainstem and the spinal cord. In humans and in most other mammals that have been studied, it consists of swellings on either wall of the fourth ventricle. In rodents and lagomorphs, however, the area postrema forms a midline structure dorsal to the obex. When viewed histologically for its capillary distribution and morphology, the area postrema has numerous subregions separated according to capillary permeability, rates of blood flow, and duration of blood transit through respective capillary beds.

Function

Relatively little is known about the function of the area postrema in humans.  However, there is strong evidence that the area postrema acts as the chemoreceptor trigger zone for vomiting, which is triggered by the presence of noxious stimulation from the blood. There is also evidence that the area postrema is the site at which angiotensin stimulates glucose metabolism, presumed efferent neural activity, blood pressure control, and thirst. The area postrema also has integrative capacities that enable it to send major and minor...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-25 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon! Is the audio coming through okay on your end?
Other: Loud and clear! How are you, Jamie?
Target: Doing well, thanks. I just wrapped up the mid-morning PT, so I'm all caffeinated and ready to focus now. How’s your day been so far?
Other: Can’t complain—though hearing about morning PT makes my day seem a lot less productive. Are you joining us from base again today?
Target: Yeah, I had to swing by the admin building after morning formation, but I grabbed a corner in the quieter wing. The wifi’s not stellar, but it works. There’s something about the smell of cammies and coffee that tells you you’re in the right place.
Other: Sounds about right. So, as you saw in the agenda, we’re looking to hammer out details for the Career Development Workshop series. Thanks for stepping up to coordinate from your side.  
Target: Happy to help out. Our CO always says we should make time for things like this—things that help us off-duty, too. Last year’s event went over well, but this time I think we can make it even smoother for the team.  
Other: I agree. Remind me—how many people are you planning to recruit this cycle?
Target: I talked to almost everyone in my section, and there’s a couple more in the barracks next door who might join. Altogether, I think we'll have around 25, if you count some of the new faces just out of AIT. We’re a tight-knit group; word gets around fast.
Other: Impressive. The diversity in your unit stood out during our chat last week. We’d love for some of the junior members to share what’s on their minds, too.
Target: Definitely. Some may not be comfortable speaking out right away, but the more seasoned of us can break the ice. It’s funny—my high school principal always used to say that too: “Break the ice, then smash your goals.” We had pep rallies for everything, even Science Olympiad.  
Other: I remember you mentioning your school had some pretty spirited traditions. You know, I’ve always wanted to visit the Pacific and see what graduation ceremonies are like out there.
Target: Oh, they go all out, believe me. My graduation was outdoors, under the palm trees, right next to the campus. One of my classmates even did a traditional chant before we tossed our caps. The ocean breeze tried to steal my diploma, but I’m glad I grabbed it fast enough.
Other: That sounds incredible. Much livelier than my Midwest school gym sendoff. Out of curiosity, did a lot of folks pursue further studies after your year?
Target: Some did, yeah. I actually went straight into this—never really saw myself on a college campus full time. A few from my close circle ended up at universities on the mainland. For me, that walk across the stage was the last formal school ceremony I had.
Other: So you made the leap straight from high school to serving. That’s a big move for someone fresh out of school. Was it always your plan?
Target: Mixed feelings at first, but I looked at the options and decided that structure was what I needed. The transition from midnight cramming and drama club to reveille calls was… well, loud in every sense.
Other: I bet! So, logistically, do you want to run the opening session? We could have you do a welcome and maybe talk a bit about balancing training with professional goals.
Target: Yeah, I could do that. It still feels strange being the “old hand” in this setting, even if I haven’t hit any major adult milestones outside the uniform. But if my experience helps the new arrivals settle in, I’ll go for it.
Other: You might be surprised—you’ve got more leadership experience than most folks your age in the civilian world.
Target: I try not to think about it in age terms. A couple months back, some buddies had a “single and surviving” cookout, and I realized none of us have changed much since senior year. The biggest thing is we learned to iron our own clothes.
Other: That’s a valuable skill! And yes, I was going to ask if any of your cohort had taken the plunge, relationship-wise.
Target: Not yet—not me, anyway. Anytime there’s talk about weddings and such, I usually get volunteered to be the music DJ or make a toast. One day, I guess, but I’m still fine rolling solo for now.
Other: Sometimes it’s smart to focus on your own growth before getting tied down. Plus, this phase of life passes quickly. So, about the Day 2 session—will you need us to provide anything special for the skills panel you’re leading?
Target: If you can bring up-to-date handouts, that’d help. I can handle the tech side if your slides come in PDF; makes it easy to share on our shared drives. Also, if you could tailor some examples to fit our location, that would really connect with folks.
Other: Oh, right—I sometimes forget you’re coordinating this from halfway across the Pacific. I’ll be sure to include examples with a local flair. Any particular topics that you think will resonate with your team?
Target: Financial literacy is always good. A lot of people here send money home or help out family. And sometimes, it’s hard to get info about resources unless you’re willing to stand in the midday sun and wait at the admin center. Real-life hacks for dealing with local banks would be appreciated.
Other: Noted! You mentioned last time that your family’s pretty well-rooted in the territory, right?  
Target: That’s right. We’ve never had to worry about needing a visa, but there’s a certain pride when you see your home listed on TV during election coverage. I used to joke that I’ve never had a winter coat in my closet; just the exact same birth certificate as folks a few thousand miles away, but sunnier.
Other: I love that. Have you thought about how to share that unique background with the team? Maybe as an icebreaker story?
Target: I might just bring out some childhood photos. My grandma still teases me about how I used to fall asleep during the Carnival parade, even as the conch drums blasted away. It’s a good reminder for some of the younger ones that your story matters, no matter where you started.
Other: That’ll be a hit, I’m sure. People bond over those kinds of details. Side note—are you comfortable with the online platform we’re using for these workshops?  
Target: Pretty comfortable. I’ve run a few NCO meetings on here. The only hiccup is sometimes the sound cuts out when the neighbor starts practicing the ukelele, which I swear only happens during professional calls. Perks of island living.
Other: That’s honestly charming. If only more meetings had background music! On another note—how do you manage getting work done with so many family events and festivals around?  
Target: You get used to the rhythm. Some weeks, there are so many luaus and graduation parties, but you figure out how to carve out space for work—usually right before sunrise, when the whole world is calm. My calendar’s a patchwork of drills, birthday barbecues, and Zoom invites these days.
Other: Wish I had more barbecues on my calendar! Circling back: do you see yourself taking on more formal teaching or mentoring roles, either in or out of uniform, after this project wraps up?
Target: I’d like to. I never thought I’d present to a group—or run workshops, honestly. If you’d told my 18-year-old self, walking out the doors of my high school in flip-flops, that I’d be doing this, I would’ve laughed.
Other: Leadership shows up in all forms. It’s great you’re channeling that energy for your peers now. Did you have any mentors who nudged you in this direction?
Target: Yeah, a few. My squad leader during my first training cycle was huge on pushing people to get qualified, whether it was for promotions or extra skills. And my English teacher in senior year was the first to tell me I should lead something, not just participate.
Other: Teachers have a way of seeing potential. By the way, do you need any special recognition for folks who achieve milestones during the workshop cycle?
Target: Maybe some digital certificates? Nothing too fancy, but something to pin on the board in the dayroom. For some of these younger troops, it’s the first time their efforts get recognition that’s not just a line in an eval.
Other: I love that idea. We can design something that fits the setting. Switching gears—are there any logistical issues we should be aware of, given your location? Shipping delays, power outages, anything like that?
Target: Occasional power flickers, but nothing major. The main thing is the time difference; some of your mainland folks forget that we’re greeting the sun before they’ve had their first cup of coffee. But as long as sessions are scheduled with that in mind, we’re good.
Other: I’ve put reminders in my calendar, don’t worry. Out of curiosity, is it true your base is within sight of volcanic slopes?
Target: Oh, definitely. When you drive up, you get a postcard view—lava rock, wildflowers, the works. I love getting to start my morning runs with that backdrop. You don’t get bored with the scenery much.
Other: Now I’m envious. Makes me wish we could hold the workshop in person. Are most of your team locals, or is it a pretty mixed group?
Target: It’s a mix. Some transferred in from other bases, but about half are kids who grew up here—went to high school nearby, still hang out at the same shave ice stand after training. There’s something grounding about it.
Other: I can imagine. Is there anything we should know about cultural or community events that could impact participation?
Target: Only that the occasional surf competition or festival can distract folks—especially when it’s the finals at Waikiki or a family member is dancing hula somewhere. But people are dedicated. They’ll work it in, even if it means logging on from a beachside bench.
Other: Maybe we need a workshop on time management, island style!  
Target: More like a workshop on multitasking—fitting work, service, and family into every 24 hours. I joke that I’ve become an expert at it, ever since I started prepping for field exercises before sunrise while texting reminders to my siblings about chores.
Other: Seems like those organizational skills started early.
Target: Might be. My parents were big on everyone having a role at home and at school—finish your schoolwork, then help set up the backyard for the aunties’ potluck. That mindset sticks with you.
Other: Do you ever wish you’d gone straight into college instead of enlisting?
Target: Sometimes, I wonder how things would’ve played out. But I like where I am now. I figured I could always go back to school later, and in the meantime, I get to serve, travel during drills, and help out at home. Not a bad deal.
Other: No regrets, then.
Target: Nope, not yet. Especially when I look at my cousins—they’re still figuring things out, hopping between classes or odd jobs. I get structure, a steady paycheck, and a sense of purpose. Plus, the uniform comes with some pretty good perks.
Other: You seem to have your priorities lined up. How have your parents responded to your career choices?
Target: Supportive, mostly. There’s a long history of family in uniform on both sides, so no surprise there. My mom probably brags to her friends more than she’d admit. Every once in a while, someone recognizes my last name at a ceremony and asks if I’m related.  
Other: Small world, huh?
Target: Especially here. Everyone’s either your relative or your friend’s cousin. Gets tricky but makes for an easy icebreaker.
Other: Absolutely. So, before I let you go, any last thoughts or requests for the workshop planning?
Target: Nothing major—just keep giving us practical tools and a little flexibility to adapt to the local vibe. We do things with a bit of extra color here. If all else fails, a shared laugh helps people remember the important points.
Other: I can do that. Thanks so much, Jamie. I look forward to hearing updates and seeing how the workshop unfolds.
Target: Really appreciate your support, too. And sorry in advance if a wild rooster interrupts one of my future calls—that’s just part of the soundtrack around here.
Other: I think that sounds perfect. Have a great rest of your day!
Target: Thanks! Catch you soon.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_130 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Hydrophobic soil

Hydrophobic soil is a soil whose particles repel water. The layer of hydrophobicity is commonly found at or a few centimeters below the surface, parallel to the soil profile. This layer can vary in thickness and abundance and is typically covered by a layer of ash or burned soil.

Formation and structure

Hydrophobic soil is most familiarly formed when a fire or hot air disperses waxy compounds found in the uppermost litter layer consisting of organic matter. After the compounds disperse, they mainly coat sandy soil particles near the surface in the upper layers of soil, making the soil hydrophobic. Other producers of hydrophobic coatings are contamination and industrial spillages along with soil microbial activity. Hydrophobicity can also be seen as a natural soil property that results from the degradation of natural vegetation such as Eucalyptus that has natural wax properties.

It was found that in a particular New Zealand sand, this waxy lipid coating consisted of primarily hydrocarbons and triglycerides that were basic in pH along with a lesser value of acidic long-chain fatty acids. Capillary penetration amongst soil particles is limited by the hydrophobic coating on the particles, resulting in water repellence in each particle affected as the hydrophilic head of the lipid attaches itself to the sand particle leaving the hydrophobic tail shielding the outside of the particle. This can be seen in Figure 1 below. 

Other important soil water averting factors have been found to include soil texture, microbiology, soil surface roughness, soil organic matter content, soil chemical composition, acidity, soil water content, soil type, mineralogy of clay particles, and seasonal variations of the region. Soil texture plays a large role in predicting whether a soil could be water repelling as larger grained particles in the soil such as sand have smaller surface areas, making them more prone to being fully coated by hydrophobic compounds. It is much more difficult to entirely coat a silt or clay particle with more surface area, but when it does happen, the resulting water repellency of the soil is severe. As soil organic matter in the form of plant or microbial biomass decomposes, physiochemical changes can release these hydrophobic compounds into the soil as well. This, however, depends on the type of microbial activity present in the soil as it can also hinder the development of hydrophobic compounds.

Hydrophobicity testing

Soil water repellence is almost always tested with the water droplet penetration time (WDPT) test first because of the simplicity of the test. This test is executed by recording the time it takes for one droplet of water to infiltrate a specific soil, indicating the stability of repellency. Water infiltration is expressed as water entering the soil in a spontaneous fashion and correlates with the angle of the water-soil contact. If the water-soil contact angle is greater than 90º, then the soil is determined to be hydrophobic. It has also been observed that if the test droplet is placed on hydrophobic soil, it will rapidly develop a particulate skin before disappearing.

Results of the WDPT:

Table 1: Characterizing the degree of hydrophobicity in soils based on the water droplet penetration test.

Another method for determining soil water repellency is the molarity of ethanol droplet (MED) test. The MED test uses solutions of ethanol of varying surface tensions to observe soil wetting within a time frame of 10 seconds. If there is no wetting within the specified timeframe, an aqueous solution of ethanol with lower surface tension is then placed on a different area of the sample. The results of the MED test depend on the molarity of the ethanol solution whose droplets were absorbed in the allotted 10 seconds. Classifying soil water repellency from this test can be done by using a MED index where a non-water repellent soil has an index of less than or equal to 1 and a severely water repellent soil has an...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_293 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Wireless microphone

A wireless microphone, or cordless microphone, is a microphone without a physical cable connecting it directly to the sound recording or amplifying equipment with which it is associated. Also known as a radio microphone, it has a small, battery-powered radio transmitter in the microphone body, which transmits the audio signal from the microphone by radio waves to a nearby receiver unit, which recovers the audio.  The other audio equipment is connected to the receiver unit by cable.  In one type the transmitter is contained within the handheld microphone body.  In another type the transmitter is contained within a separate unit called a "bodypack", usually clipped to the user's belt or concealed under their clothes. The bodypack is connected by wire to a "lavalier microphone" or "lav" (a small microphone clipped to the user's lapel), a headset or earset microphone, or another wired microphone. Most bodypack designs also support a wired instrument connection (e.g., to a guitar). Wireless microphones are widely used in the entertainment industry, television broadcasting, and public speaking to allow public speakers, interviewers, performers, and entertainers to move about freely while using a microphone without requiring a cable attached to the microphone.

Wireless microphones usually use the VHF or UHF frequency bands since they allow the transmitter to use a small unobtrusive antenna.  Cheap units use a fixed frequency but most units allow a choice of several frequency channels, in case of interference on a channel or to allow the use of multiple microphones at the same time. FM modulation is usually used, although some models use digital modulation to prevent unauthorized reception by scanner radio receivers; these operate in the 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz or 6 GHz ISM bands. Some models use antenna diversity (two antennas) to prevent nulls from interrupting transmission as the performer moves around. A few low cost (or specialist) models use infrared light, although these require a direct line of sight between microphone and receiver.

History
Various individuals and organizations claim to be the inventors of the wireless microphone.

From about 1945 there were schematics and hobbyist kits offered in Popular Science and Popular Mechanics for making a wireless microphone that would transmit the voice to a nearby radio.

Figure skater and Royal Air Force flight engineer Reg Moores developed a radio microphone in 1947 that he first used in the Tom Arnold production "Aladdin on Ice" at Brighton's sports stadium from September 1949 through the Christmas season. Moores affixed the wireless transmitter to the costume of the character Abanazar, and it worked perfectly. Moores did not patent his idea, as he was illegally using the radio frequency 76 MHz. The producers of the ice show decided that they would not continue using the device; they would rather hire actors and singers to perform into hidden microphones to "dub" the voices of the other ice skaters, who would thus be free to concentrate on their skating. In 1972 Moores donated his 1947 prototype to the Science Museum in London.

Herbert "Mac" McClelland, founder of McClelland Sound in Wichita, Kansas, fabricated a wireless microphone to be worn by baseball umpires at major league games broadcast by NBC from Lawrence–Dumont Stadium in 1951. The transmitter was strapped to the umpire's back. Mac's brother was Harold M. McClelland, the chief communications architect of the U.S. Air Force.

Shure Brothers claims that its "Vagabond" system from 1953 was the first "wireless microphone system for performers." Its field of coverage was a circle of "approximately 700 square feet", which corresponds to a line-of-sight distance of only  from the receiver.

In 1957, the German audio equipment manufacturer Sennheiser, at that time called Lab W, working with the German broadcaster Norddeutscher Rundfunk (NDR), exhibited a wireless microphone system. From 1958 the system was marketed through...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-3 (difficulty=3, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, I could use some advice today. I've got a rare bit of time alone, which is nice but also a little daunting. I often wonder if I'm making the best use of these quiet moments.

Chatbot: Hello! I’d be happy to help. How are you thinking you might spend your free time today? Would you like ideas to relax, be productive, or maybe a little of both?

Person: That’s the big question, isn’t it? Sometimes I feel like these stretches at home are just holding space between the rush and noise of life. I’m not one to just sit still—I was always busy, and I still feel like there’s a million things I could be doing—so I thought I’d ask an AI for a fresh perspective.

Chatbot: Absolutely, sometimes a quiet day feels like a gift, but it can also be hard to decide how to spend it when you’re used to keeping busy. What are some things you’ve considered but haven’t had time for lately?

Person: Well, I’ve had this beadwork project gathering dust on my kitchen table for the last month or so. My grandma taught me the basics when I was young, and lately I’ve thought about picking it back up as a way to stay connected to family and heritage, you know? But the motivation comes and goes. And, to be honest, there are moments where being alone with my thoughts gets heavy.

Chatbot: That’s a beautiful way to stay connected to your roots. Sometimes art and crafts are the best form of self-care, especially when they’re tied so closely to our personal history. Would it help to set a small goal for yourself, like working on your beadwork for a certain amount of time, or even just organizing your supplies? And it’s perfectly natural for quiet time to bring up heavy thoughts—if you ever need to talk through those, I’m here for you.

Person: You’re right, maybe I’ll get my supplies out. It’s a craft that feels like home, reminds me of spending summers at Mille Lacs. I always loved hearing old stories around the table while my aunties worked on their latest projects. Around here, most folks fly through their day-to-day with never a break for tradition, but for me, it’s important.

Chatbot: It sounds like the beadwork helps you keep those memories close. Is there a particular pattern or story you want to portray in your next piece? Sometimes giving a project a meaningful theme makes it easier—and more enjoyable—to get started.

Person: Actually, yes. I was thinking of making a design reminiscent of the wild prairie roses that bloom here every summer. They’re tough, beautiful, and seem to bloom no matter what life throws at them. Reminds me of my mom, honestly, and my own journey too. I suppose I’d like to see that resilience reflected in my work.

Chatbot: That’s a truly lovely inspiration—prairie roses are a wonderful symbol for resilience and beauty. Will you use traditional colors and stitches? And if you’re open to sharing, I’d love to hear any stories associated with the rose that feel special to your family.

Person: Oh, definitely. I’ll probably stick to reds, soft pinks, and greens, though I might add a little extra sparkle for good measure. As for stories, my mother always said the prairie rose was for survivors. She made one for me when I was a child, back before things got hard. Even when she got sick, she found comfort in working with her hands, putting her strength into every stitch. I guess that’s why I keep coming back to it too. Helps remind me I’m made of strong stuff, even on days when it feels like I’m not.

Chatbot: That’s such a powerful example of creativity as a form of both healing and honoring. If you find solace in this kind of work, maybe part of your quiet time could be dedicated to putting those feelings into your beadwork. Would you like tips on organizing your workspace, or do you just enjoy diving in and seeing where the thread leads?

Person: I do like to organize first; makes it feel less daunting. Plus, it gives me a chance to find all the little treasures I’ve collected—shells, bits of agate, porcupine quills. Things picked up on walks along the river. I grew up spending a lot of time outdoors, especially close to the water. Even when I moved to this town, I made sure to be near open land. I think that’s why I stuck around instead of chasing city jobs elsewhere. There’s just something about big sky and prairie grass.

Chatbot: There’s nothing like the open land and the rich natural beauty of your region. It sounds like your environment plays a big role in your creative process. Do you ever take inspiration from the landscapes around you for your beadwork, or maybe even from the animals and plants unique to your area?

Person: All the time. The rolling hills, cottonwoods, and especially the buffalo—they all show up in my patterns sooner or later. Sometimes sitting on my porch, I’ll spot a ring-necked pheasant strutting through the backyard or just watch the wind play with the grass. Those moments find their way into my artwork. There’s so much history to these lands. My family has been here for generations, long before state lines were drawn. I want to keep that sense of place alive, at least in my way.

Chatbot: Your sense of connection to the land and your heritage is inspiring. Has that connection changed for you over the years, or does it still feel the same as when you were a child? And is your beadwork something you share with others—either as gifts, for sale, or maybe in community events?

Person: It’s shifted over time, especially after losing people close to me. There was a time when all of us would sit together, talking and working with our hands, but now the house feels quieter, almost echoing. I started making beaded gifts for my daughter and son-in-law; sometimes I bring pieces to the local powwow or donate them for charity auctions. It helps me feel like I’m giving back, and sometimes younger folks ask me to show them how it’s done.

Chatbot: That’s a wonderful way to keep tradition alive and pass it on to others. How do you stay connected to your community these days? Are there events, gatherings, or groups you’re part of that help you feel supported—especially during those quieter times at home?

Person: After my husband passed, I found it hard to go out for a while, but friends and neighbors slowly drew me back in. I go to Sunday potlucks now and then—sometimes at the tribal center, other times at the church basement. There’s a monthly quilt circle, and, every so often, I help organize a supper at the community hall down the road. That, and I check in on a few elders who don’t get many visitors. It means a lot to all of us.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’ve built a close-knit network. It’s so important to have those connections, especially after such a big loss. If you ever feel overwhelmed, remember it’s okay to lean on others—and even on me, for a listening ear.

Person: Thank you. Some days I feel like I’m managing alright—full of lists and plans and things to get done—but there are days when the silence settles in deep. That’s when I hear his voice in my head, telling me to put the kettle on and take a break. He was always practical like that; even after all these years, it’s hard to believe life can keep marching forward without him.

Chatbot: Grief has a way of surprising us, even after time passes. Your memories of him sound gentle and grounding. On your quiet days, practicing self-kindness and honoring your feelings is important. Are there any comforting routines you turn to on hard days?

Person: On days when the weight is heavy, I usually brew a pot of wild sage tea and play his favorite radio station—old country songs. Sometimes I read letters we sent each other when he was out on the road for work. Other times, I’ll walk to the old cemetery and visit his resting place, bring him a few prairie crocuses if they’re in season. Those little rituals help me feel less alone.

Chatbot: Those are healing routines. You’ve created ways to stay connected, both to him and to your roots. Would you be interested in new activities to supplement your routines, or do you prefer to keep to your familiar comforts?

Person: I’m open to new things—actually, that’s why I thought to reach out today. My daughter keeps encouraging me to join her book club, but I feel a bit odd being the only one with so much gray hair, and sometimes I worry I’ll stick out. Still, I’m tempted. I’ve also thought about volunteering a little more. The food pantry down on Main Street is always short-handed, and I do have a flexible schedule these days.

Chatbot: Both joining a book club and volunteering sound rewarding! A book club could be a gentle way to make new friends and keep your mind engaged, and sharing your time at the food pantry can have a lasting impact in your community. Sometimes showing up—just once—can be the first step to finding new joy and connection. Would you like some tips on easing into group settings or making these first experiences more comfortable?

Person: That would help, thanks. I guess it’s just about taking the leap. There aren’t as many people in these parts, so word gets around when someone new joins in. I’ve learned to make the best of it, though. Folks around here might seem reserved, but they always show up when it matters—ice storms, bad crops, you name it.

Chatbot: It’s reassuring to know your community is there for each other in times of need. When stepping into something new, it can help to reach out to a familiar face first. Maybe your daughter could introduce you at the book club? Or you could bring a batch of your favorite cookies to the pantry—food usually makes for easy conversation!

Person: She’s been gently nudging me to give it a try, so maybe I’ll accept her invitation next week. And yes, baked goods have a way of breaking the ice, don’t they? I make a pretty mean batch of frybread, and that always gets people talking about family and recipes and stories from “up north.”

Chatbot: Frybread is a wonderful icebreaker—and it sounds delicious, too! Sharing food, stories, and traditions is a great way to bridge generations and backgrounds. If you ever want recipe ideas or book recommendations for that club, I’m here to help brainstorm.

Person: I appreciate that. Sometimes it blows my mind how quickly things have changed, technology-wise. Back when I started working, everything was pen and paper—now I use my phone for just about everything. My boss jokes that I’m the tech support for our small office! But I will admit, I do like the convenience. This way, I can finish payroll from my dining room and still have time to call my grandkids before supper.

Chatbot: That’s impressive! Adapting to new technology and becoming your office’s go-to tech person shows you’re always learning. The flexibility of being able to work from home is an advantage, especially when it means you can stay connected to family and have time for your own projects. How do you balance your professional and personal time, especially when home becomes the workplace?

Person: It took some getting used to. At first I would answer emails at all hours, but eventually I learned that if I don’t set boundaries, the work just never ends. My supervisor understands that as long as I keep things running smoothly, I can work from wherever—so I log in early, handle what needs doing, and then take my afternoons for myself. It’s a blessing, really, especially after all the years I spent commuting into town. These days, I can look out the window at the cottonwoods any time I want.

Chatbot: You’ve found a smart way to make your schedule work for you. Having that flexibility lets you be present both in your job and in the things that nourish you at home. Is there anything in your workspace setup that helps you stay focused—or anything you’d like to improve for even better work-life balance?

Person: I keep my workspace by the window for natural light, and decorate it with photos—my kids as toddlers, my late husband in his favorite flannel, family gatherings under the old tree on the reservation. There’s a little dreamcatcher hanging from my monitor, too. I like seeing reminders of where I come from and who’s rooting for me, even if it’s just in spirit.

Chatbot: Having those meaningful items nearby sounds grounding. Surrounding yourself with reminders of family and tradition can make even mundane tasks feel better. If you ever want ideas on home office organization or even digital reminders for self-care breaks, just let me know.

Person: I might take you up on that. Sometimes I wonder how much longer I’ll keep this routine up, but for now it suits me. Knowing I have both work and creative things to look forward to helps the days pass in a good way. Plus, the winters here are long, so having projects keeps the cabin fever away!

Chatbot: That’s a wise strategy—projects and routines are helpful during those long winter months. Besides beadwork, are there any other hobbies or activities you turn to when the snow piles up outside? Maybe something you’ve wanted to try but haven’t gotten around to yet?

Person: In the winter, I try to keep myself busy with baking, jigsaw puzzles, and, when my arthritis lets me, I’ll try some quilting—nothing fancy like the contests, just simple blocks for family. I’d like to learn more about traditional stories, maybe even record a few so the grandkids will remember them. My grandson’s teacher once asked me to come in and share about our history, which was nerve-wracking but rewarding.

Chatbot: Sharing stories and history is invaluable, both for family and for the broader community. Recording them sounds like a wonderful idea—audio, video, or written, whatever feels comfortable. A living link to the past. If you want resources or ideas for capturing oral traditions, I’d be glad to help find some.

Person: Thank you, I might ask for some recommendations. Keeping memory alive is important. There aren’t as many opportunities for the younger generation to hear the old tales firsthand these days. I want them to know where they come from, what made our family strong through every trial.

Chatbot: That’s a lasting gift to give. If you need structure, tools, or prompts for storytelling, there are resources to guide you each step of the way. When you’re ready, just let me know. And remember, sharing your experiences, whether through stories, art, or conversation, makes a difference.

Person: Your encouragement means a lot. Sometimes it’s hard not to get bogged down by the past, but remembering the good and passing it forward—that’s what matters. I’ll start today by pulling out my beads, making a cup of tea, and see where the afternoon takes me. Thank you for listening, and for the suggestions.

Chatbot: You’re most welcome. Wishing you a calm and creative afternoon. If ever you need advice, a recipe, or even just some company, I’m always here for a chat. Take care and enjoy your beadwork—the stories, the memories, and the beauty you’re creating.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_275 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Carbon sequestration

Carbon sequestration (or carbon storage) is the process of storing carbon in a carbon pool. Carbon sequestration is a naturally occurring process but it can also be enhanced or achieved with technology, for example within carbon capture and storage projects. There are two main types of carbon sequestration: geologic and biologic (also called biosequestration).

Carbon dioxide () is naturally captured from the atmosphere through biological, chemical, and physical processes. These changes can be accelerated through changes in land use and agricultural practices, such as converting crop land into land for non-crop fast growing plants. Artificial processes have been devised to produce similar effects, including large-scale, artificial capture and sequestration of industrially produced  using subsurface saline aquifers or aging oil fields. Other technologies that work with carbon sequestration include bio-energy with carbon capture and storage, biochar, enhanced weathering, direct air carbon capture and sequestration (DACCS).

Forests, kelp beds, and other forms of plant life absorb carbon dioxide from the air as they grow, and bind it into biomass. However, these biological stores are considered volatile carbon sinks as the long-term sequestration cannot be guaranteed. For example, natural events, such as wildfires or disease, economic pressures and changing political priorities can result in the sequestered carbon being released back into the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide that has been removed from the atmosphere can also be stored in the Earth's crust by injecting it into the subsurface, or in the form of insoluble carbonate salts (mineral sequestration). These methods are considered non-volatile because they remove carbon from the atmosphere and sequester it indefinitely and presumably for a considerable duration (thousands to millions of years).

To enhance carbon sequestration processes in oceans the following technologies have been proposed but none have achieved large scale application so far: Seaweed farming, ocean fertilisation, artificial upwelling, basalt storage, mineralization and deep sea sediments, adding bases to neutralize acids. The idea of direct deep-sea carbon dioxide injection has been abandoned.

Terminology 

The term carbon sequestration is used in different ways in the literature and media. The IPCC Sixth Assessment Report defines it as "The process of storing carbon in a carbon pool". Subsequently, a pool is defined as "a reservoir in the Earth system where elements, such as carbon and nitrogen, reside in various chemical forms for a period of time".

The United States Geological Survey (USGS) defines carbon sequestration as follows: "Carbon sequestration is the process of capturing and storing atmospheric carbon dioxide." Therefore, the difference between carbon sequestration and carbon capture and storage (CCS) is sometimes blurred in the media. The IPCC however defines CCS as "a process in which a relatively pure stream of carbon dioxide (CO2) from industrial sources is separated, treated and transported to a long-term storage location".

Hence CCS is a technology application that utilises artificial carbon sequestration techniques.

History of the term (etymology) 
The term sequestration is based on the Latin sequestrare, which means set aside or surrender. It is derived from sequester, a depositary or trustee, one in whose hands a thing in dispute was placed until the dispute was settled. In English "sequestered" means secluded or withdrawn.

In law, sequestration is the act of removing, separating, or seizing anything from the possession of its owner under process of law for the benefit of creditors or the state.

Roles

In nature 
Carbon sequestration is part of the natural carbon cycle by which carbon is exchanged among the biosphere, pedosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere of Earth.

Carbon dioxide is naturally captured from the atmosphere through biological, chemical or physical...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-27 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! My name is John Barker. I’ve got a few things I want to talk about today if that’s okay.

Chatbot: Of course, John! I’m here to help. What would you like to discuss?

Person: Well, I feel like work’s been a bit overwhelming lately. For context, I’m currently a civilian employed and at work. My job title is inspector, tester, sorter, sampler, and weigher — I work in production occupations, and I live in Minnesota. Just wanted to lay all that out before we dive in.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing those details, John. Working as an inspector, tester, sorter, sampler, and weigher in production occupations can be demanding. What’s been going on at your job that’s making you feel overwhelmed?

Person: I think a lot of it has to do with new quality control protocols. They’re good, but the learning curve has been steep, and there’s more responsibility for testers like me. I have a master’s degree, so I’m used to learning complex concepts, but it’s still a lot to handle.

Chatbot: It sounds like you’re facing quite a few changes. Given your educational background—a master’s degree—you’re clearly capable of understanding advanced procedures. Are there specific parts of the new protocols causing you the most stress?

Person: The new system for weighing and sorting is tricky. We’re supposed to sample more often and document each test very precisely. I was born on 17 August 1986, so I’ve been in this field a while and seen a lot of changes, but this one feels like a big shift. Maybe I’m just feeling my age a bit!

Chatbot: I can see how adapting to significant changes in procedure could feel challenging, especially with your years of experience. Since you have experience and a master’s degree, you’re very qualified. Have you received adequate training and support from management in Minnesota for these changes?

Person: Some, yes, but it still feels like they’re figuring things out as much as we are. The hands-on nature of inspecting and sorting is something I enjoy, but keeping up with the tech updates can be daunting. I just want to make sure I’m doing a good job—both for myself and for the team. Also, living in Minnesota, I’ve been dealing with those long winter commutes, which add to the fatigue.

Chatbot: Minnesota winters can definitely add another layer of difficulty, especially when commuting to a production facility. Is there any support at work for employees during those harsh weather months? And are there any peer support groups among inspectors, testers, sorters, samplers, and weighers?

Person: We do have some carpooling options, but sometimes I just have to brave the drive myself. A few of us employees—other inspectors and testers—have a chat group, which helps to vent and share tips. I appreciate your asking. My birthday just went by on August 17th, so the team even brought in cupcakes! Small things like that help with morale, for sure.

Chatbot: That’s wonderful to hear, John! Belated happy birthday. It sounds like you have supportive coworkers. Besides work and commuting, is there anything else on your mind right now, perhaps something related to your personal life or your career development?

Person: Thanks for the birthday wishes! I’ve been thinking about leveraging my master’s degree to move into a supervisory inspector role, maybe even here in Minnesota. Inspectors, testers, sorters, samplers, and weighers have a lot of insight into the production line, so I feel like my experience could be useful in leadership. But I hesitate, since I enjoy the hands-on aspects.

Chatbot: It’s great that you’re considering growth opportunities. Someone with your qualifications—a master’s degree and years of experience in production occupations—is well suited for a supervisory role. If you became a supervisor, do you think you’d miss the day-to-day tasks of inspecting, testing, sorting, sampling, and weighing?

Person: Probably! There’s a real satisfaction to methodically testing a product and knowing you’re the one who caught a potential issue. I’m not sure I’d get the same feeling just overseeing others. At the same time, I could use what I’ve learned since I started working as an inspector, tester, sorter, sampler, and weigher—especially the troubleshooting skills I picked up when I first started in Minnesota, right after I completed my master’s degree.

Chatbot: It’s always a balancing act between advancing in your career and staying close to the work you enjoy most. Have you spoken to anyone about advancing, perhaps a mentor or manager at your workplace in Minnesota?

Person: I have. My manager in production occupations suggested I shadow some current supervisors to get a feel for it. They know I have a master’s degree and am open to learning new things. I haven’t fully decided what to do yet, but it’s nice knowing there’s a possible path forward.

Chatbot: Shadowing is an excellent idea. It allows you to get a sense of the role and see if it’s a good fit for you. Given your employment status as a civilian employed, at work in Minnesota, and with your master’s degree, you have a lot of possibilities open to you. Do you want some tips on transitioning into supervisory roles, or would you like to talk more about managing the current workload?

Person: I’d appreciate tips on both, actually. The workload feels less intimidating if I imagine myself eventually leading a team of other inspectors, testers, sorters, samplers, and weighers. But in the meantime, managing stress is important—especially since I want to keep performing well as an employee with a master’s degree.

Chatbot: For managing current stress, setting boundaries and taking short breaks during your shift can help. Keeping communication open with your team is also key. Regarding a supervisory transition, you might consider documenting examples of how your work as an inspector, tester, sorter, sampler, and weigher—especially your problem-solving and mentorship moments—has benefited the team. This will demonstrate your value when you apply for a promotion within the production occupation sector in Minnesota.

Person: That makes sense. I’ll start keeping a log of things I’ve done well. I’m glad I can reflect openly here. Just to recap, I’m John Barker, born 17 August 1986, living in Minnesota, currently employed as an inspector, tester, sorter, sampler, and weigher in the production field, and I hold a master’s degree. Thanks for your guidance so far!

Chatbot: It’s a pleasure to assist you, John Barker. Thank you for sharing your details and experiences so openly. Let me know if there’s anything else you’d like to talk about regarding your career or life in Minnesota. I’m here to help whenever you need support or advice.

Person: That’s all for now. I appreciate it. I’ll check back as I decide about my next steps. Have a good one!

Chatbot: You too, John! Best of luck at work and with your future plans.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_218 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Stick-built construction

A stick-built home is a wooden house constructed entirely or largely on-site; that is, built on the site which it is intended to occupy upon its completion rather than in a factory or similar facility. This term is used to contrast such a dwelling with mobile homes and modular homes that are assembled in a factory and transported to the site entirely or mostly complete and hence are not "stick-built".

Stick-built homes are also those homes which are built using a more traditional method of construction rather than a modular type. The "sticks" mentioned usually refer specifically to the superstructure of the walls and roof.

Most stick-built homes have many of the same things in common. They are usually built with lumber, though it is possible to use metal poles for the construction as well. This is more expensive, more time-consuming and generally harder for the homeowner to deal with once constructed. These homes also have many of the common features associated with most homes, such as shingles and drywall.

See also
 

House types
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-38 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good afternoon, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me, I know it’s a busy time of year for everyone.

Doctor: No problem at all, glad to help. What brings you in today?

Patient: I’ve been having this persistent pain in my right wrist. It flares up more in the evenings. I’m not quite sure if it’s something serious or just strain.

Doctor: I see. When did this start, and do you remember if anything in particular triggered it?

Patient: I think it started about two weeks ago. I don’t remember a single event, but I do spend a lot of time standing and my hands are always submerged in hot and cold water. I’m not doing that these days, but I used to spend long hours scrubbing pots and trays, if you know what I mean. I guess all those repetitive tasks might be catching up with me.

Doctor: That makes sense. Repetitive strain can definitely lead to joint pain like what you’re describing. Can you describe the pain—sharp, dull, tingling, numbness?

Patient: Mostly it’s an ache, but after holding something heavy, it sometimes turns sharp and then I feel it all up my forearm. No numbness or tingling, though.

Doctor: Any swelling, redness, or warmth to the touch?

Patient: Not that I can tell. It looks fine, really—just a bit tender, especially after chores.

Doctor: It sounds musculoskeletal, but I’ll want to examine it in a moment. Are you doing anything for relief—painkillers, ice, heat packs?

Patient: I tried alternating ice and heat, and I occasionally take some over-the-counter pain meds, but only if it’s bad. I don’t love the idea of popping pills.

Doctor: That’s a reasonable approach. Have you changed your daily activities since this started?

Patient: I actually have a lot more free time these days. I'm not working outside the house anymore—mainly helping around home and tending to some family matters. Before, I hardly had a moment to myself, but now, most of my days are pretty flexible, which is a big switch from always being on my feet in a noisy kitchen.

Doctor: Understood. That’s good background for me. How’s your general health been otherwise? Any chronic medical conditions or medications I should know about?

Patient: No chronic illnesses, really. Blood pressure’s always been normal at check-ups, and I don’t take any prescription medications regularly. I’m up to date on vaccinations and such, too.

Doctor: Good to hear. Any family history of arthritis or repetitive strain injuries?

Patient: My mother always complained about her hands in the cold, but as far as actual diagnoses, not that I know of. My hands have served me well, considering the years I spent rinsing trays and stacking plates for hours on end.

Doctor: Sounds like a lot of hard work over the years. Sometimes it can take a toll on our bodies.

Patient: Tell me about it. That was many long evenings, especially back when my partner and I were just starting out. Even now, I still help with the dishes at home—old habits die hard.

Doctor: Speaking of your partner, is there anyone at home helping out or relying on you for care?

Patient: Yes, my spouse is a great support. We’ve been together for quite a while, and we take care of each other’s little aches and pains, especially now as we’re not exactly in our twenties anymore.

Doctor: That’s wonderful to hear. How old are you, if you don’t mind my asking? Sometimes age can factor into musculoskeletal complaints like this.

Patient: Not at all. I hit a bit of a milestone last year—turned 37 the same week the lunar eclipse was all over the news. It was funny because my birthday always falls right after the cherry blossoms hit their peak, and this time the city was covered in blooms and everyone kept talking about the night sky. Spring birthdays definitely have their perks; I get sunshine and flowers almost every year.

Doctor: That sounds beautiful. So you’re about 37 now, turning 38 soon?

Patient: Yes, in just a couple of weeks actually. It usually lands just before Tax Day here. I joked with my friends that my birthday celebrations and everyone's stress about taxes always overlap.

Doctor: That’s a great memory hook. And have you ever noticed similar pain in years gone by, or is this the first time?

Patient: Once before, just after a busy wedding season at the last place I worked. We did so many back-to-back events, the dish cart felt like an extension of my arms. It faded that time, so I assumed it would this time as well.

Doctor: There may have been repeated minor stress on your joints that’s finally catching up. Do you mind if I ask—you mentioned not working outside the house now—is that a recent change?

Patient: Pretty recent, yes. I decided it was a good moment to pause. My partner is working full-time, and our finances are steady, so I’m able to keep house, manage our meals, and take care of errands. I also try new recipes, though now it’s more for family than for customers.

Doctor: Sounds like a nice shift of pace. Do you feel that not having to clock in every day has helped with your stress?

Patient: It’s a double-edged sword. I miss my coworkers and the energy of a busy kitchen—plus, you meet people from everywhere in that line of work. But honestly, after a decade of trailing water down my sleeves and wrestling with industrial sinks, I don’t miss the midnight closing shifts.

Doctor: Understood. Some habits are hard to drop—I’ve heard washing dishes can be almost meditative for some.

Patient: That’s true, especially late at night while the kitchen’s quiet and there’s just the hum of machines. I used to have a little game with myself to see how fast I could get things sparkling before last call. They called me the “human dishwasher” back there.

Doctor: That’s great. Out of curiosity, how long had you worked in that field?

Patient: Oh, since my early twenties, not long after I finished school. I tried a few different jobs, but that one stuck. It was steady, and there’s always a need for someone who isn’t squeamish about saucepans with baked-on bits.

Doctor: That’s very true. Where did you learn your kitchen tricks—from family or on the job?

Patient: A bit of both. My grandmother taught me how to handle a crowded kitchen at home, but I picked up a lot on my feet—sometimes literally. I’ve worked in a few different restaurants since arriving here, actually.

Doctor: Interesting. I’ve noticed we see a lot of different backgrounds in this area. Do you feel at home here?

Patient: I do, though sometimes I have to remind myself I still need to look for the right paperwork when certain things come up. Like last year, I had to double check which forms to fill for healthcare. It can get confusing, you know—especially when the instructions never seem to cover folks who haven’t gone through all the ceremonies, so to speak.

Doctor: That can be complicated. Do you have access to a primary care provider regularly, or is it more on an as-needed basis?

Patient: More as-needed lately. Back where I grew up, it was a little different, but here, I just make an appointment when something pops up. I have to make sure my documents are all in order each visit, but I'm used to that now.

Doctor: All right, thank you for sharing. Sometimes our documentation system here can create a bit of a barrier for newcomers, or for those whose paperwork doesn’t quite match the local forms.

Patient: That’s the way of it. I’m used to the extra steps—passport’s always at the ready for those occasions.

Doctor: Let’s move back to your wrist. I’d like to take a look at it—would you mind if I checked the range of motion and a few grip tests?

Patient: Of course, go ahead.

Doctor: Please let me know if anything hurts while I gently rotate your wrist. Any pain here?

Patient: No, that feels fine. It’s when I flex like this—see? That’s where it hurts the most.

Doctor: I can see some minor tenderness, but no obvious swelling. Your grip strength also seems good. It looks like mild tendinitis, which is often treated conservatively at first. I recommend resting it from heavier chores, keep using ice packs for 20 minutes at a time, and try some anti-inflammatory medication if the pain interferes with your sleep.

Patient: Understood. I’ll have to negotiate kitchen duty with my spouse for a while longer, then.

Doctor: It’s worth it to let things heal. Are there grandkids or anyone else around that could pick up the slack?

Patient: Not yet—still just the two of us at home. We did talk about traveling once things calm down, so that’s a bit of motivation to get back to normal.

Doctor: That sounds lovely. Is it anywhere far?

Patient: We’d like to visit some places from my childhood. I haven’t seen some of those sights in decades, since before I started working in kitchens over here. Maybe it’s nostalgia, but sometimes I crave home-cooked food that isn’t served up in banquet trays.

Doctor: The comfort of home food is hard to top. Are you keeping up with friends or relatives from back home?

Patient: We video chat regularly, especially for the birthday season—it’s a bit of a tradition that my siblings and I all send each other well wishes each April. This year, my birthday falls on a Thursday, which apparently is good luck where I’m from.

Doctor: That’s wonderful, having traditions like that. I hope this year you’ll find yourself celebrating pain-free.

Patient: That would be perfect. I aim to be able to raise a glass—or at least a fork—by then.

Doctor: I’ll write up a summary of today’s visit and print out some instructions for wrist care. Would you like to discuss anything else—perhaps stress, sleep, or general lifestyle?

Patient: Actually, yes—a little about sleep. Lately I’ve not been needed out the door early, so my routine’s shifted. Some nights I have trouble falling asleep, though others I sleep like a log. I’ve always been better with a set schedule, especially back when my work meant being wide awake for the dinner rush and home well after midnight.

Doctor: That’s very common when your daily routine changes. It helps to keep a regular bedtime, even without work to wake up to. Gentle stretching or herbal tea before bed can also aid sleep. Do you ever nap during the day?

Patient: Only occasionally, when a night’s been particularly restless. Otherwise I try not to, as it makes me groggy.

Doctor: Good idea. Keeping your body clock stable is key, especially since most of your days are flexible now. Are you eating well? Getting some exercise?

Patient: I like to experiment in the kitchen still, so meals are rarely boring. I walk with my spouse a few evenings a week, now that the weather’s nice.

Doctor: That’s great. Keep an eye on hand and wrist movements during meal prep. Try to switch hands or use tools with wider grips as well.

Patient: Will do. It’s not quite the same as swinging a heavy pot in the restaurant, so it feels manageable.

Doctor: Perfect. Is there anything else on your mind?

Patient: No, that’s all for today. I appreciate your help, Doctor. I know some things are trickier to sort out when you’re not part of the system by birth, but I’m glad to have somewhere to turn for help.

Doctor: Absolutely. We’re here for everyone, no matter how their background or paperwork reads. Please come back if the pain doesn’t settle or if you have any questions about your care.

Patient: Thank you, I will. I’ll try to go easy on the chores until then. Hopefully next time I’ll just have the usual aches of being almost 38, not anything new.

Doctor: Sounds good. Take care and enjoy your upcoming birthday! And say hello to your spouse from me.

Patient: I will, thank you. Have a good afternoon.

Doctor: You too. Take care.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-23 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, doctor. I’ve got a few things I want to discuss today, if that’s okay.

Doctor: Of course, good morning. What brings you in today?

Patient: Well, mainly a sore lower back that’s been bothering me for weeks. I’m hoping it isn’t anything too serious, but I figured I should get it checked out because it keeps coming back.

Doctor: I’m glad you came in. Can you tell me more about when the pain started and what seems to make it worse?

Patient: It started about three weeks ago. I first noticed it after one of my long days outside, trimming edges and raking leaves at that big community park. At first, I just thought it was muscle soreness, but the ache never really goes away, especially after a lot of bending and using those heavier tools.

Doctor: So, it’s aggravated by physical work outdoors and using tools?

Patient: Definitely. And some mornings, especially after it rains, things feel a bit worse. I tried switching up my routine, but sometimes there’s just a lot to do after a weekend storm. Customers expect the whole place to be tidy for Monday morning. Even mowing takes it out of me these days.

Doctor: I can imagine that’s tough, especially if you’re doing it day in, day out. Is this a new experience for you, or have you had something similar in the past?

Patient: Hmm, I’ve had sore arms or hands before from trimming hedges, but never this kind of back pain. I mostly try to stay active—you know, always on my feet, moving around—but maybe I haven’t been stretching enough. My mate said I should do yoga, but I always tell him I don’t have the patience for it. Honestly, it’s been non-stop ever since we got the gardens ready last spring, so maybe I pushed myself a bit too hard.

Doctor: Have you had any injuries recently? Any slips or falls?

Patient: Thankfully, no big accidents, just the usual bumps and scrapes. Sometimes I’ll get jabbed by a thorn, or slip a little on wet grass, but nothing major. The back pain just seems to creep in after a long shift. I try to take ten-minute breaks on busy days, but with all the clients my boss has signed up lately, it’s a bit hard to keep up.

Doctor: And what do you usually do to help with the pain?

Patient: I use that heat rub in the evenings. My uncle swore by it when he did grounds work at the cricket club, and sometimes I take an ibuprofen if it’s really acting up. On the weekends, I might just put my feet up and watch a match, but Mondays always hit me like a ton of bricks.

Doctor: How’s this affecting your day-to-day routines?

Patient: It's slowing me down a bit. I usually get up before sunrise so I can catch the first train, get to the depot, and grab the team’s supplies. Nowadays I'm dragging in a bit slower, takes me longer to load up the lawnmower and blowers. Some of the younger lads joke I’m becoming the “old man” on the crew, which I guess is fair, but I’d like to keep up. My supervisor sometimes reassigns the heavier jobs, but I don’t want to let him down—I take pride in the work, even if my back isn’t completely along for the ride.

Doctor: You mentioned watching the match on weekends—is that football?

Patient: Cricket, mostly. If there’s a Premier League game I might catch a bit, but cricket is what I grew up with. My cousins all play in a local league, and we still try to meet up for a picnic and game when the weather’s good. Brings back memories of Dhaka parks, though my family moved to the UK a long time ago. These days, I just play the role of sideline uncle—someone’s got to man the barbecue and fetch the water bottles!

Doctor: Sounds like a good way to relax after a long week. You mentioned family—does anyone help you out at home?

Patient: It’s just me at the flat now. My son lives with his mum nearby, and I see him every other weekend when it’s my turn. We go to the park, or I take him with me while I sweep up leaves at the community center. He loves pretending to be the boss, telling me how I missed a spot! My ex and I still talk sometimes—good days, bad days, you know how it goes.

Doctor: It’s important to have support, even if things change over time. Do you have anyone you can talk with about how you’re feeling, especially with your back and everything going on?

Patient: I mostly just talk to mates from the depot, or my mum if she calls. It’s hard telling family back home that I’m struggling—don’t want them to worry. Most of us in my line of work, we just stick it out. I’ll have a cup of tea with a coworker after a long shift, swap stories, that sort of thing. My son always cheers me up, though. Even if I’ve had a rough day, hearing him laugh can make a difference.

Doctor: It seems like you’re juggling quite a bit. Aside from the back pain, how’s your overall health? Any changes in your appetite, sleep, or energy levels?

Patient: Sleeping’s a bit up and down. If the pain is bad, I won’t get much rest, especially if I have a lot on my mind. I try not to nap during the day because I usually have rounds at the estate or a council job. Eating is alright—depends if I’ve had time to prep rice and curry the night before. I’m not fancy in the kitchen, but I can make a decent daal or bhuna.

Doctor: That sounds lovely; homemade is always best. Do you have any concerns about your diet or weight, or is it mainly the pain holding you back right now?

Patient: Diet’s alright, I think. My mum always says I should eat more greens. To be honest, I just grab what I can between jobs. Sometimes that’s a samosa from the corner shop or whatever’s left over from the lads’ lunch. I’ve lost a couple of kilos since spring, but nothing crazy. I think it’s just the long hours—I don’t sit much.

Doctor: I see. Are there other health issues I should be aware of, like high blood pressure or allergies?

Patient: Not that I know of. Last time I got a blood test, nurse said things looked fine. Only thing I can think of is sometimes I’ll get itchy hands from the plants, but a rinse usually sorts it out. I wear gloves now—learnt that lesson after a nasty patch of nettles.

Doctor: Glad to hear you’re being cautious. Let’s talk a bit more about work. Do you do most of your tasks alone, or as part of a team?

Patient: Bit of both, really. Some days I get paired up to tackle the big gardens, but often it’s just me at the housing complex—there’s a lot of lawns to cover and not enough hands. I’ve been showing a new lad the ropes recently. He’s just out of school, so I try to teach him the right way to edge, sweep, or prune safely. By the end of summer, he’ll be able to run a whole site on his own.

Doctor: Teaching others is a skill in itself. Have you taken any training courses for your job, especially around lifting or equipment safety?

Patient: Not formal ones, no. A few years back, I had to do some online safety modules—basic stuff, mostly videos and quizzes you can finish in half a day or so. Didn’t take more than a couple tries, but I managed to pass, got the computer printout to prove it. I learned most of the job hands-on, picking up tips from older crew members and watching what they do. It’s not fancy learning, but it’s good enough for what I do.

Doctor: That practical experience goes a long way. Do you think you’d benefit from a refresher or something more tailored to your daily tasks?

Patient: Maybe. I haven’t done classroom learning in ages; last real time was before I started working, and even that was just evening classes to brush up. Didn’t go the traditional route after secondary school, really—I had to get out there and earn a living. Don’t regret it, though. Made life a bit of a patchwork, but at least I know how to keep busy.

Doctor: Many people find work experience just as valuable as classroom time. Back to your back pain—does anything make it better or worse, like a certain movement or position?

Patient: If I stretch out a bit before work, I get less pain. But carrying big bundles of cuttings or crouching to trim hedges makes things worse. Sometimes just getting up from kneeling is a bother. I try to switch up tasks when it’s flaring, but the schedule doesn’t always allow for that. If I sit for too long, I get stiff too. Tends to ease up after a hot shower, though.

Doctor: Are you getting any help with your workload, perhaps through your supervisor or your team?

Patient: They pitch in when they can, but we’re all busy. The place has a big turnover—lots of people don’t stick it out after the first rainstorm! There’s always a new face, someone needs to be trained, no time to slack. If I ever want a hand, I have to ask, and I try not to because I don’t want to seem like I can’t handle it.

Doctor: It’s understandable you want to keep up. Sometimes, though, it’s better to ask for help than risk further injury. Are you open to trying some stretches or exercises to help strengthen your back?

Patient: Yeah, I’d be open to learning something new, so long as I don’t need fancy equipment. My living room’s small, but I can make space. I’m more likely to stick with it if it fits my schedule. I leave for my rounds early, so I might have to do it after work.

Doctor: I can give you a printout with simple exercises you can do at home, and if you’d like, we can arrange a session with the physiotherapist. They’re used to working with people who do a lot of lifting and outdoor activity.

Patient: That would be helpful. I’m used to pushing through aches, but I’d rather get ahead of things before something serious happens. I’ve seen too many coworkers miss months after injury, and I can’t really afford that—my son depends on me.

Doctor: Absolutely. Keeping you healthy and able to support your family is a top priority. If things don’t improve after a few weeks of exercises, or if you notice things like numbness, tingling, or pain radiating down your legs, let us know right away.

Patient: Understood, thank you. I’ll keep a note if anything changes. I’m not much on paperwork, but I can jot things in my phone.

Doctor: That works well. Before we finish, do you have any questions about medications, or whether you need time off work?

Patient: If you recommend something over-the-counter, I can get it from the pharmacy. But time off—I try not to miss any days. If I don’t show up, someone else has to cover me, and the lawns don’t stop growing just because I need a breather!

Doctor: Just make sure you don’t push yourself too hard. Regular stretching, appropriate breaks, and using good lifting technique will go a long way. If you need a doctor’s note at any point, I can provide one.

Patient: Alright, I’ll keep that in mind. My job’s not glamorous, but it keeps me on my toes, and I feel like I’m doing something worthwhile when I see those gardens blooming or the park looking neat.

Doctor: Your work is vital—green spaces make a huge difference for the whole community. Remember to take care of yourself, too.

Patient: I will. Thanks for listening and for your advice. Not many people get what it’s like doing what I do day after day.

Doctor: I appreciate you sharing your experience. If anything changes, or if you’re worried about something else, please make another appointment. And if you run into any trouble with those exercises, let us know—you’re not on your own.

Patient: Thanks, doctor. I’ll give the stretches a try and keep an eye on things. Hope next time I’m here, it’s just for my regular check-up.

Doctor: That sounds like a plan. Take care, and I hope you and your son enjoy your time together this weekend.

Patient: Cheers, doctor. I’ll let him know. He’ll probably want me lifting him up for a piggyback ride, so I better get started on those exercises.

Doctor: Good luck, and have a great weekend.

Patient: You too. Thanks again.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-95 (difficulty=1, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doctor. Thanks for seeing me today.

Doctor: Of course, happy to help. What brings you in?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling a bit more fatigued lately, especially after work. I’m a biological scientist, so sometimes my lab schedule can be demanding. I wanted to check in and make sure there’s nothing major going on with my health.

Doctor: Thanks for sharing that. Just to confirm, are you still working in the life, physical, and social science fields?

Patient: Yes, I'm still working as a biological scientist, mainly focused on environmental research.

Doctor: Understood. Do you feel the fatigue is related to your work schedule, or do you suspect it’s something else?

Patient: It might be a combination. My experiments sometimes mean long days at the lab, but lately it’s been harder to bounce back, even after the weekends. For context, I live in Washington state, so I often get outdoors on my days off, but even that doesn’t seem to re-energize me the way it used to.

Doctor: I see. It’s good that you try to stay active and get outside. Before we proceed, can you confirm your details: you’re a male, correct?

Patient: Yes, I am male.

Doctor: And you still reside in Washington, just to ensure our records are current?

Patient: That's right, I live in WA.

Doctor: Thank you. Could I also get your Social Security Number for verification before we proceed?

Patient: Of course. My Social Security Number is 197-25-8787.

Doctor: Got it, thank you. For your medical history, were you born in the United States?

Patient: Actually, I was born abroad to American parents, so I’m a U.S. citizen even though my birthplace is overseas.

Doctor: Thank you for clarifying. And as for your education, what’s your highest level so far?

Patient: I have a bachelor's degree in biology.

Doctor: Perfect. Thank you for confirming all of those details. Now, about the fatigue: Any recent changes in your sleep patterns? Are you getting enough rest at night?

Patient: I try to stick to a regular schedule, going to bed around 11 p.m. Most nights I get between six and seven hours of sleep, but sometimes stress from work keeps my mind busy.

Doctor: Stress can certainly impact your sleep and energy levels. Have you noticed any other symptoms? For example, changes in your appetite, unintentional weight loss, frequent headaches, or anything else unusual?

Patient: I haven’t had any significant weight changes or appetite loss. I do get headaches from time to time, but I usually attribute those to eye strain from long hours at the microscope or computer.

Doctor: That makes sense given your occupation. Have you ever had your iron levels, thyroid function, or vitamin B12 checked before?

Patient: It’s been at least a couple of years since those labs were done. My last check-up was mostly routine, just basic bloodwork.

Doctor: Let's plan to order some updated blood tests, including a complete blood count, thyroid function, iron studies, and vitamin B12. That should help us rule out common causes of fatigue.

Patient: Sounds good to me.

Doctor: Are you taking any medications or supplements right now?

Patient: Just a multivitamin most days, nothing prescribed.

Doctor: Any history of chronic health conditions? Diabetes, high blood pressure, or anything similar?

Patient: No chronic conditions that I’m aware of.

Doctor: That’s good. Since you’re feeling more fatigued lately and you have a demanding job as a biological scientist, along with the fact that you have your bachelor’s in biology, it seems you’re pretty aware of your health and lifestyle. Do you find that your job in the life, physical, and social sciences impacts your ability to relax?

Patient: Sometimes, yes. The deadlines can be tight, and managing data can get overwhelming.

Doctor: That’s understandable. In terms of mental health, have you felt down, anxious, or overwhelmed more often than usual lately?

Patient: I wouldn’t say full-blown anxiety, but there have been periods where I feel more stressed. Mostly, it’s just ongoing pressure to get results and publish.

Doctor: That’s common in research settings. Having a degree like your bachelor’s in biology may prepare you intellectually, but those work pressures are real. Do you have strategies that help you decompress?

Patient: Going for hikes is my go-to, especially since Washington has so many beautiful trails. I try to keep work-life balance, but it’s a challenge.

Doctor: All right. I'm glad you have some outlets. After we get the lab results, we can review further. If everything checks out medically but the fatigue persists, we can look into stress management resources. Since you mentioned being born abroad but having American parents, can I check if you have any recent travel history out of the country?

Patient: Not in the last year. Most of my family still lives in the States, and with my job as a biological scientist based in Washington, I haven't needed to travel for work or family.

Doctor: That’s helpful. Any family history of autoimmune conditions or thyroid disease?

Patient: My mother has mild hypothyroidism; nothing on my father’s side that I know of.

Doctor: Thanks. So, to summarize, you’re a male biological scientist with a bachelor's degree, living in Washington, born abroad to American parents, and your SSN is 197-25-8787. I’ll order the labs we discussed, and we’ll check for any underlying issues. In the meantime, keep tracking your symptoms, and let me know if anything changes before our follow-up.

Patient: That’s a good plan. Thanks for being thorough.

Doctor: You’re welcome. You’ll get a call from the nurse once your labs are ready, and we’ll set up a time to review. Take care of yourself, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you have new symptoms.

Patient: Thank you, Doctor. Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-30 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there, my name is George Lacey. I’m hoping you can help me brainstorm some ideas for a new community garden project I’m working on as an urban and regional planner. Also, just so you know, I am female. It can be funny having the name George, but it’s actually my given name!

Chatbot: Hello, George! It’s great to meet you. I love that you’re working on a community garden project—such planning can really bring a community together. Since you’re an urban and regional planner, you probably have a unique perspective. Can you tell me more about what your goals are for the garden?

Person: Thanks! My main goal is to create an inclusive space where people from all backgrounds can participate and benefit. As someone who is Japanese, I’d like to incorporate design elements that celebrate my heritage while also making sure the space feels welcoming for everyone.

Chatbot: That sounds wonderful, George. Incorporating elements from your Japanese background could add a beautiful and meaningful touch to the garden. Are you thinking of features like a zen garden area or traditional plants? Also, since you want it to be inclusive, do you have ideas for accessibility or community engagement?

Person: Yes, definitely. I want to have a small section with Japanese maples and cherry blossoms, and maybe even a stone lantern or two. As for accessibility, I’m ensuring there will be wide, smooth paths and raised beds for those with mobility needs. Including everyone is especially important to me, not only because of my job, but because I know how much community means, especially as someone who was born abroad of American parent(s). Connecting to others has always been part of my experience.

Chatbot: Making the garden accessible and inclusive is a fantastic approach, George. It’s interesting to hear that you were born abroad of American parent(s). Have your experiences living in different places influenced how you approach urban planning and community building?

Person: Absolutely. Having that international perspective opened my eyes to how different cultures approach community spaces, and how important it is to bridge traditions. Also, as someone who is married, I’ve been able to draw from my spouse’s experiences and insights, which has really enriched the planning process.

Chatbot: That’s great to hear! It must be wonderful to have a supportive partner as you work on these projects. In your role as an urban and regional planner, what’s been the most rewarding aspect of your career so far?

Person: I think the most rewarding part, for me, is seeing how thoughtful design can transform a neighborhood. When I see families, individuals, and people from all walks of life enjoying a space that I helped create, it reminds me why I chose this profession. I’ve always wanted to make a positive impact, and I find a lot of meaning in bringing people together, especially as someone whose life, physical, and social science background feeds directly into my work as an urban and regional planner.

Chatbot: That’s truly inspiring, George. It sounds like you’ve managed to combine your scientific background, cultural heritage, and personal motivation to create community-focused projects. Out of curiosity, are there any unique challenges you’ve faced as a female urban and regional planner?

Person: Yes, there have been challenges. As a woman in my field, I sometimes have to deal with assumptions about my expertise. But I’ve found that by building a strong network of colleagues and staying focused on my goals, I can overcome those barriers. I also make sure to mentor other women entering the life, physical, and social sciences, so we can support each other.

Chatbot: That is a great approach, George. Mentorship and support can make a huge difference for women in STEM fields. What advice would you give to others who are interested in pursuing a similar career, especially young women who might be thinking of studying urban and regional planning or other life, physical, and social sciences?

Person: My advice is to stay curious and never be afraid to ask questions. Seek out mentors, focus on teamwork, and remember that your unique perspective has value. Being Japanese and born abroad of American parent(s), I sometimes felt like an outsider, but I used that to my advantage by bringing new ideas to the table. Don’t let anyone tell you your voice doesn’t matter.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing that, George. You’ve covered some important points about diversity and perseverance. If you need any help with specific aspects of your current community garden project, such as design ideas, grant-writing, or community outreach strategies, please let me know!

Person: I appreciate that. Right now, I could use some suggestions for engaging local schools in the project. Since I’m married and have talked a lot with my spouse about the importance of youth involvement, I’d love to hear your take on how to connect with students and teachers to make the garden interactive and educational.

Chatbot: Engaging local schools can really boost the impact of your community garden. You might consider setting up volunteer gardening days, offering hands-on science lessons that tie into their curriculum, or hosting workshops focused on both horticulture and the cultural elements, such as Japanese traditions. Perhaps you could invite teachers to help design lesson plans centered around the garden.

Person: Those are excellent ideas! I think incorporating lessons on Japanese garden design, sustainable planning, and the science of plants could all work well together. I really want to use my role as an urban and regional planner—and my background in life, physical, and social science—to create a living classroom for students.

Chatbot: Fantastic plan, George. With your unique qualifications and personal experiences, the garden is sure to become a special community fixture. If you have any more questions or need further ideas, just ask. Good luck with your project!

Person: Thank you so much! This has been very helpful. And thanks for listening—sometimes it feels good just to have someone to talk things through with, especially balancing my role as an urban and regional planner, my life as a married woman, and my multicultural identity as a Japanese person born abroad of American parent(s).

Chatbot: You’re very welcome, George. You have an inspiring story and a wonderful vision for your community. I wish you the best of luck with your garden project and future endeavors!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-32 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['name']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'MAR', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi! My name is Mary Goetzmann. I was hoping you could help me plan out my week a little—there’s a lot going on with school and work right now.

Chatbot: Hi Mary! I’d be happy to help. Can you tell me a bit more about your schedule and what you need to plan for this week?

Person: Sure. So, I’m currently in grade 8, which means I have some assignments due and a couple of tests coming up. Aside from that, I am also civilian employed and at work after school most days. I live in Ohio, so the weather’s getting colder, which makes getting to and from work kind of annoying sometimes.

Chatbot: Sounds like you have a lot on your plate! Can you walk me through your typical weekday? That'll help me understand where you might have some time to fit everything in.

Person: Of course. On weekdays, I have school in the morning, usually until about 3 PM. Right after that, I head to my job—I work evenings during the week, usually from 4 to 8 PM. I try to do homework either before I start my shift or later at night, but it can be tough to stay focused when I get home tired. Also, since I have never been married or anything like that (I’m only 15!), I don’t have family responsibilities, but keeping up with school and work is still a lot.

Chatbot: That does sound like a busy routine. Balancing grade 8 requirements with your job must be challenging. Is there a particular subject or assignment that you’re struggling with right now?

Person: I’m most worried about my math test this Friday. Math isn’t my favorite, and with my work schedule at the grocery store, I don’t always have a lot of time to study as much as I want. I was born on 13 November 2007, so I just turned 15 last fall. Juggling teenage life, schoolwork, and being employed is pretty overwhelming sometimes.

Chatbot: Thank you for sharing all of that, Mary. It’s impressive that you’re so organized and responsible at your age. For math, would it help to break the material down into smaller study sessions across the week? Since you finish work at 8 PM, maybe allocating even just 20-30 minutes a night could help you stay prepared without being too stressful.

Person: Yeah, that makes sense. Since I’m currently employed and working while going to school, I often feel too tired to study for long stretches. If I split things up, maybe it won’t seem so bad. My parents also live here with me in Ohio, so they help me out by making sure dinner’s ready when I get back from work. That gives me a little time to relax before homework.

Chatbot: That sounds like a supportive home environment. Do your parents help you with homework at all, or do you generally study on your own?

Person: They try when they can, but math isn’t really their thing either. Usually, I study on my own, but sometimes I ask friends from grade 8 for help—or even my math teacher if I’m really stuck. I think next year, when I’m in high school, things will get even busier, especially since I plan to keep working while in school.

Chatbot: That’s a smart way to plan ahead! It’s admirable that you’re dedicated both to your education and to your job. How do you manage your time between school, work, and any activities you do for fun?

Person: It’s definitely a challenge. Being a civilian employed student isn’t super common at my age here in Ohio, but I want to save up for college and help out with some family expenses. Since I have never been married or anything, I only have to worry about myself, which helps a bit. To unwind, I do some drawing and listen to music after work or on weekends. I also hang out with friends from school whenever I find the time.

Chatbot: That sounds like a good way to make sure you still have some downtime. For your math test, would you like tips on study techniques or resources you can use?

Person: That would be great! Anything that helps me organize my study time around my work schedule would be awesome. Also, if you know any good online resources for grade 8 math, let me know. I have access to a laptop and the internet at home here in Ohio, so that would work.

Chatbot: Absolutely. For grade 8 math, Khan Academy is a solid resource—it offers practice exercises and instructional videos. You can work through specific topics that you find challenging. As for time management, try making a simple calendar for the week, blocking out your work hours, and then fitting in 20-30 minute math sessions around those blocks. Since you’re civilian employed and have regular work hours, building a consistent routine could help reduce stress.

Person: Thanks, that sounds doable. I’m going to try setting up a study schedule tonight. It’s helpful to know that others balance work and school, even at my age. Sometimes it feels like I’m missing out, but I know working is important too. Like I said, I was born on 13 November 2007, so I just turned 15, and it feels like a lot all at once.

Chatbot: You’re handling it all really well, Mary. Many people your age aren’t managing both employment and grade 8 coursework, so it’s perfectly normal to feel overwhelmed at times. Remember, it’s okay to ask for help from teachers or supervisors at work if you’re struggling.

Person: Thanks, that’s reassuring. I know I have a lot to manage since I’m in grade 8, working part-time, and living in Ohio. I’m hoping that with better study habits, things will feel less stressful.

Chatbot: I believe they will. You’ve already taken the first step by reaching out for help and organizing your schedule. If you need more detailed study plans or just someone to talk things through with, I’m here. Good luck, Mary Goetzmann! You’ve got this.

Person: Thank you! I appreciate the support. I’m Mary Goetzmann, and I promise I’ll put these tips into action and make this week work for me.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_133 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Brain ischemia

Brain ischemia is a condition in which there is insufficient bloodflow to the brain to meet metabolic demand.  This leads to poor oxygen supply or cerebral hypoxia and thus leads to the death of brain tissue or cerebral infarction/ischemic stroke.  It is a sub-type of stroke along with subarachnoid hemorrhage and  intracerebral hemorrhage.

Ischemia leads to alterations in brain metabolism, reduction in metabolic rates, and energy crisis.

There are two types of ischemia: focal ischemia, which is confined to a specific region of the brain; and global ischemia, which encompasses wide areas of brain tissue.

The main symptoms of brain ischemia involve impairments in vision, body movement, and speaking. The causes of brain ischemia vary from sickle cell anemia to congenital heart defects. Symptoms of brain ischemia can include unconsciousness, blindness, problems with coordination, and weakness in the body. Other effects that may result from brain ischemia are stroke, cardiorespiratory arrest, and irreversible brain damage.

An interruption of blood flow to the brain for more than 10 seconds causes unconsciousness, and an interruption in flow for more than a few minutes generally results in irreversible brain damage.  In 1974, Hossmann and Zimmermann demonstrated that ischemia induced in mammalian brains for up to an hour can be at least partially recovered. Accordingly, this discovery raised the possibility of intervening after brain ischemia before the damage becomes irreversible.

Symptoms and signs
The symptoms of brain ischemia reflect the anatomical region undergoing blood and oxygen deprivation. Ischemia within the arteries branching from the internal carotid artery may result in symptoms such as blindness in one eye, weakness in one arm or leg, or weakness in one entire side of the body. Ischemia within the arteries branching from the vertebral arteries in the back of the brain may result in symptoms such as dizziness, vertigo, double vision, or weakness on both sides of the body . Other symptoms include difficulty speaking, slurred speech, and the loss of coordination.  The symptoms of brain ischemia range from mild to severe.  Further, symptoms can last from a few seconds to a few minutes or extended periods of time.  If the brain becomes damaged irreversibly and infarction occurs, the symptoms may be permanent.

Similar to cerebral hypoxia, severe or prolonged brain ischemia will result in unconsciousness, brain damage or death,  mediated by the ischemic cascade.

Multiple cerebral ischemic events may lead to subcortical ischemic depression, also known as vascular depression. This condition is most commonly seen in elderly depressed patients. Late onset depression is increasingly seen as a distinct sub-type of depression, and can be detected with an MRI.

Causes
Brain ischemia has been linked to a variety of diseases or abnormalities.  Individuals with sickle cell anemia, compressed blood vessels, ventricular tachycardia, plaque buildup in the arteries, blood clots, extremely low blood pressure as a result of heart attack, and congenital heart defects have a higher predisposition to brain ischemia in comparison to the average population. Sickle cell anemia may cause brain ischemia associated with the irregularly shaped blood cells. Sickle shaped blood cells clot more easily than normal blood cells, impeding blood flow to the brain.

Compression of blood vessels may also lead to brain ischemia, by blocking the arteries that carry oxygen to the brain. Tumors are one cause of blood vessel compression.

Ventricular tachycardia represents a series of irregular heartbeats that may cause the heart to completely shut down resulting in cessation of oxygen flow. Further, irregular heartbeats may result in formation of blood clots, thus leading to oxygen deprivation to all organs.

Blockage of arteries due to plaque buildup may also result in ischemia.  Even a small amount of plaque build up can result in the narrowing of...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-89 (difficulty=1, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['credit card number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hey there, I need some advice about online shopping and security. I usually do a lot of my shopping online here in Georgia, but lately I’m worried about sharing info on websites. For instance, is it safe to enter your credit card number directly on a site?

Chatbot: Hi! That’s a really smart question. Shopping online can be very convenient, but you’re right to consider the security risks. It’s safest to only enter your credit card number if the website is reputable and uses HTTPS (you’ll see a padlock icon in your browser address bar). Also, using payment services like PayPal or Apple Pay adds a layer of protection between your card number and the website.

Person: That makes sense. Sometimes smaller stores don’t have those payment options though. If I do have to put my credit card number in, are there any risky signs I should look for on a website? For example, my credit card number is 30246095396217 and I really don’t want it to get compromised.

Chatbot: Absolutely! There are several warning signs to be aware of on smaller e-commerce sites. If the website looks outdated, has many pop-ups, or poor spelling and grammar, those can be red flags. Always check for that HTTPS connection, avoid sites asking for unusual information, and use strong, unique passwords for your accounts. Never enter sensitive information if the site doesn’t look trustworthy.

Person: Got it! On a different note, I graduated high school a couple of years ago and since then I’ve been trying to manage my finances better. I have a regular high school diploma but didn’t go to college. Is there a good budget app you’d recommend for someone in my situation?

Chatbot: Sure! There are several budget apps that cater to recent high school grads and young adults. You might find apps like Mint, Goodbudget, or YNAB (You Need a Budget) helpful—they’re easy to use and help track spending, set savings goals, and manage different accounts. Since you have a regular high school diploma and are just starting out, these can be a good fit to build healthy financial habits.

Person: Thanks! By the way, is there any difference in financial advice for people who live in Georgia versus other states? Since I live in Georgia, I wasn’t sure if there are Georgia-specific programs or perks.

Chatbot: Great question! Each state can have its own programs for savings, financial counseling, and debt assistance. In Georgia, there are specific resources like Georgia United Credit Union or the Pathways2Empowerment program, which helps residents with financial literacy. It’s always smart to explore state-specific financial education opportunities and discounts, especially when managing a new budget.

Person: Yeah, I’ve heard of a few local programs. I was born on 22 January 2002, so I’m trying to get an early start on investing. Do you think someone my age should start investing right away, or focus on building savings first?

Chatbot: Since you were born on January 22, 2002, you’re at a great age to start thinking about investing, but it’s important to have an emergency savings fund first—about 3-6 months of living expenses. Once you have a financial buffer, you can start investing gradually, perhaps in a Roth IRA or through apps aimed at young adults. Starting early is a huge advantage because your investments have more time to grow.

Person: That’s helpful. I was never married or anything, so my bills are all my own responsibility—no spouse or kids to worry about yet. Does that change how I should plan my finances? Like, should I prioritize something differently than someone who’s married?

Chatbot: Being single with no dependents can actually simplify your financial planning. You have more flexibility to set goals that matter to you personally, like travel, career growth, or a first home. Focus on building that emergency fund, eliminating debts, and then start investing. Since you have never been married, you don’t need to budget for family expenses—so you can tailor your spending and savings to your own priorities.

Person: Awesome, that’s good to know. I’m also trying to build my credit score. Does using my credit card, 30246095396217, for small purchases and paying off the balance help with that?

Chatbot: Yes, using your credit card regularly for manageable purchases and paying off the full balance each month is one of the best ways to responsibly build your credit. Avoid carrying a high debt balance and always pay on time; those are key factors that impact your credit score.

Person: Thanks for confirming! By the way, I heard some financial apps ask for your race for demographic purposes. My race is black or African American—are there any specific financial resources or scholarships for young black adults from Georgia?

Chatbot: Absolutely. There are several financial resources, mentorship opportunities, and scholarship programs tailored specifically for black or African American young adults in Georgia. For example, the UNCF (United Negro College Fund) offers scholarships, and organizations like the Georgia Association of Black Women Attorneys and the National Black MBA Association have local chapters with financial education programs. It’s worth looking into these for additional support and opportunities.

Person: That sounds cool, I’ll check those out. Also, since I only have a regular high school diploma, are there any job training or apprenticeship programs in Georgia or online that you’d suggest, instead of going to college?

Chatbot: Definitely! Georgia offers several job training and apprenticeship programs that don’t require a college degree. The Georgia Department of Labor provides listings for apprenticeships in fields like technology, healthcare, and the skilled trades. You can also look into short-term certification programs offered by Georgia’s technical colleges, or free online platforms like Coursera, which partner with employers. These alternatives can help build a strong career path with your regular high school diploma.

Person: Sweet, thank you for all these suggestions. You’ve made it easier for me to plan out my next steps now, and I’m feeling a lot more confident with my personal finance and job options.

Chatbot: I’m really glad I could help! Remember, your proactive approach and early planning will pay off in the long run. If you have any more questions about living in Georgia, finances, or anything else, I’m always here to assist you.

Person: That’s awesome. Thanks again for answering my questions, especially about safe online shopping. Bye for now!

Chatbot: You’re very welcome! Good luck with everything, and don’t hesitate to reach out if you need more advice in the future. Goodbye!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: wiki_259 (difficulty=0, Wikipedia article)
# expected_critical: false
# rat_difficulty: 0
# rat_scenario: Wikipedia article
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: []

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
# Sunn pest

A sunn pest is an insect belonging to a group representing several genera of the 'shield bug' (Scutelleridae) and 'stink bug' (Pentatomidae) Families, with the species Eurygaster integriceps being the most economically important. Sunn pests are found in parts of North Africa, throughout West Asia and many of the new independent states of Central Asia.

The sunn pest is one of the most serious pests of wheat and barley in West Asia, where over $42 million (U.S.) is spent for its control. Yield loss from its damage has been estimated at 20-30% in barley and 50-90% in wheat. This insect damages these crops by feeding on leaves, stems and grains. During feeding they also inject chemicals that greatly reduce the baking quality of flour made from damaged wheat. If 2-3% of the grain is damaged, entire lots may be ruined because the flour will be unpalatable and the bread will not rise. Heavy attack causes wheat stems to break before harvest.

Large areas of wheat sometimes remain unharvested because sunn pest damage is so severe. These insects also attack barley, though damage is usually low. Large outbreaks of sunn pests generally occur every 6 to 8 years and can potentially cause yield losses of tens of millions of dollars.

Sunn pest management
Currently, there is not a pest management strategy to control the sunn pest on a national or global scale. However, there are a number of methods that farmers can utilize to help limit the damage caused by these insects.
Monitor pest populations; sunn pest populations vary from year to year in response to climatic conditions. Pest populations should be monitored annually to determine if it is necessary to spray for the insect. Keeping records of population levels is beneficial.
Plant early-maturing wheat varieties and harvest early; damage is less if wheat is harvested before sunn pest reach adulthood. Growing early-maturing varieties and establishing a regional uniform planting date minimizes damage. Early harvesting methods must be developed in relation to local production methods and weather conditions.
Maintain shelter belts around wheat fields. Natural enemies reduce sunn pest populations and should be encouraged. Cereal crops should not be grown on marginal lands in the foothills. These areas should remain as uncultivated habitats where flowers and grow undisturbed, providing shelter and alternative food sources, which improve survival of these beneficial insects.
Use chemical insecticides only if needed.

Selective insecticides should only be used when pest populations reach economically damaging levels. Applications should be made when adults move into cereal fields. Research has been ongoing for decades to develop and improve management of the sunn pest. In 1997, scientists from the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), the University of Vermont, and national agricultural researchers throughout the infested region began working together to develop a model sunn pest integrated management plan.

Sunn pest research
A cooperative program between the University of Vermont Entomology Research Laboratory  and the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), in Aleppo, Syria was initiated in 1997. Several strains of entomopathogenic fungi have been isolated from insects in their over wintering sites in Turkey, Syria, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Russia. In laboratory bioassays, they were tested against sunn pests, tarnished plant bug and western flower thrips. Several were highly pathogenic to all of these insects, and selected for further evaluation.

The next step in the development of these biological agents is to determine at what stage in the pests' life cycle fungi could best be used. Two possibilities are
As they migrate to the fields in the early spring
In their over wintering sites among the foothills surrounding the fields.

Six of the most promising isolates were tested in on-plant and in-litter...
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-4 (difficulty=2, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['DOB', 'ESR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for squeezing me in today.

Doctor: Not a problem. Always happy to help. What brings you in today?

Patient: Lately I’ve been having some headaches, more than usual, and I wanted your advice. With my job, I’m in front of screens almost the whole day, you know?

Doctor: Understood. Could you tell me a bit more about the headaches? How often are they happening, and where does the pain tend to be?

Patient: Sure. They’ve been showing up about four, maybe five times a week for the past month. Mostly it’s a kind of tight feeling across my forehead, but sometimes it’s more on the sides. It usually starts around mid-afternoon. I try to take short breaks away from the computer, but it doesn’t always help.

Doctor: Okay, I see. Are you experiencing any other symptoms? Nausea, changes in vision, sensitivity to light or sound?

Patient: Not really. Maybe a bit of eye strain, but that’s the worst of it. No vomiting, and nothing going on with my vision, beyond needing to blink a lot more. And I don’t get bothered by lights or noise.

Doctor: That helps. Can you remind me if you’re taking any medications regularly?

Patient: Nothing daily. Just the occasional Tylenol if the headache gets too bad. Otherwise, I try to manage it myself. I’ve been healthy overall. My last physical was last year, and everything checked out fine.

Doctor: That’s good news. When was your last eye exam?

Patient: I haven’t seen an eye doctor since early last year, probably right before my last birthday in November.

Doctor: Noted, we might want to look into that just in case your prescription has changed, especially since you spend so much time in front of monitors. Can I grab your details just to double check your file? Full birthdate, please.

Patient: Right, yeah. My birthday is the 8th day in November, '94.

Doctor: Great. And just for verification, last four digits of your social?

Patient: Sure, the first three are zero three three, then it’s zero four, and the last ones are one five three six.

Doctor: Thank you, that matches what I have. Now, about your work. You said you’re in front of screens a lot. What type of work do you do?

Patient: I’m employed with a private company right now. They keep me pretty busy. What I actually do is manage databases—mostly SQL servers, with a bit of troubleshooting when something glitches. So, yeah, a lot of time spent staring at spreadsheets and script editors.

Doctor: Got it, you’re working full time in database admin? That can definitely lead to some eye and tension headaches, especially with the number of hours you have to put in.

Patient: Exactly, full time and then some some weeks.

Doctor: How are you handling your workload? Are you under a lot of pressure or stress, or are things more manageable?

Patient: I’d say the stress level comes and goes. Recently it’s ramped up with a big migration project. Lots of tight deadlines, so I find myself skipping breaks just to keep up. I do try to remember to drink water and get up from my desk, but sometimes the code just doesn’t cooperate and I lose track of time.

Doctor: Sounds like you have a good sense of what’s needed for self-care, but the demands can make it tough to practice consistently. Are you getting any exercise during your work week?

Patient: Not as much as I’d like. Used to play some basketball on the weekends, but it’s been hard to stick to that lately. At work, I try to take the stairs rather than the elevator. My family says I should get back into it—my cousin keeps telling me, “Don’t just be the guy running databases in a server room all day!”

Doctor: Wise advice from your cousin. Are you sleeping OK, or have the headaches started to affect your rest?

Patient: Sleep’s been alright for the most part. I shoot for around six, seven hours, but if we’ve got a system update that runs overnight, I sometimes have to be on call. That happened last Friday, and it took me the weekend to bounce back.

Doctor: I see. Any family history of migraines, high blood pressure, or other similar issues?

Patient: My dad and grandmother both had high blood pressure, actually. My parents were always careful about that stuff and have been on me to take care of myself. I should mention, being African-American, sometimes the docs have said I need to be a bit more careful with hypertension.

Doctor: That’s definitely something to keep in mind. Thank you for sharing. We’ll keep an eye on your blood pressure today, too.

Patient: Thanks. I also want to make sure I’m doing what I can between checkups. Is there anything I should be monitoring or anything specific diet-wise?

Doctor: Things like reducing your salt intake, staying hydrated, and trying to fit in more regular physical activity can have a huge impact, especially with a family background like yours. Since your profession requires a lot of screen time, small breaks every 20 minutes to look at something distant could help reduce the headaches. I can recommend some eye exercises as well.

Patient: Appreciate it. I’ll try to be better about that. I know the company wellness plan has programs for desk workers, too, so maybe I should check those out.

Doctor: Absolutely. And on that note, I’d also encourage a follow-up with your eye doctor, just in case there are any changes. If you notice any other symptoms—dizzy spells, sharp vision changes, or anything out of the ordinary—let me know right away.

Patient: Will do. Thank you, Doctor. Just a last check—do you need any more info from me? Name, insurance, anything else?

Doctor: No, you’ve given me everything I need—your birthday on the eighth day of November ninety-four, the social you gave me, and your employment details match up. Let’s check your vitals and then we’ll talk about the next steps.

Patient: Sounds good, Doc. Hopefully next time I come in, it’ll just be for a regular checkup.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-42 (difficulty=2, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['address']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'zip code']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good morning! Thanks for making time to meet up virtually, I know these budget cycle reviews can get tricky to schedule with all the different time zones and deployments.

Other: Morning! No worries at all. I appreciate you hopping on—sounds like you’ve got a lot on your plate with your regular financials and the new budget directives. How’s that working out, especially since your shifts can get unpredictable?

Target: Yeah, working as a budget analyst in the service means you gotta stay pretty flexible. Sometimes I’m pulled away for drills or meetings that pop up last minute, part of the gig, you know? Balancing spreadsheets and readiness calls is its own challenge.

Other: I can only imagine. Do you ever get people in your line of work who don’t realize you’re actually active duty and not just on the civilian side? Seems like there’s a lot of overlap between military and regular finance roles nowadays.

Target: All the time! Folks just assume I’m crunching numbers at some firm in a cubicle, but my office is as likely to be on base as it is at home. Uniform’s as essential as my laptop, ha. Honestly, wearing both hats—service member and finance person—keeps things interesting. 

Other: Bet it does. And, shifting gears a little, how are you managing the workload? Have you ever thought about getting a team together for these quarterly reviews, or do you prefer going solo?

Target: Oh, definitely a team player, but sometimes it’s just me at 4200 Portsmouth Blvd—Suite 872, you know, the office near the Elizabeth River? That’s home base for our finance section in Chesapeake. Coordinating with headquarters from there can get intense in Q2! 

Other: That’s a nice location from what I hear. Easy enough commute, or do you end up working remote when things get crazy?

Target: Bit of both. With some weeks being more about fieldwork and drills, I do a lot over VPN from home or right inside suite eight-seven-two. Sometimes I joke that I know that desk better than I know my own couch.

Other: Ha! Makes sense. Are you originally from VA, or did the military bring you out that way?

Target: Born and bred in the Midwest, actually. Moving to Chesapeake was a posting a few years back. I’ll admit, I miss snow sometimes—but VA’s nicer on the knees. Plus, the local community here’s pretty welcoming, especially for someone who checks the “caucasian” box wherever forms ask.

Other: That’s good to hear. The transition after a big move can be tough, especially with family. Speaking of which, you’ve got kids, right?

Target: Yeah, I do. I’m actually divorced now so the kids split time between their mom’s place and mine. Juggling schedules requires as much planning as any quarterly budget review!

Other: That must be tough, especially with deployments and late nights at the office. But I bet the kids appreciate all the time you get with them.

Target: I try my best. My ex and I manage, we’ve been legally separated for a couple years now. It was rough in the beginning, but things are smoother these days. The structure from military life actually helps—turns out routine’s good for more than just the army.

Other: For sure! Out of curiosity, did you come straight into military finance or did you work elsewhere first?

Target: Well, I got my start in finance after grad school. Did my master’s—master of science, heavy on analytics. Went private sector for a couple years then made the switch. There was a job fair on campus, and the recruiter pitched combining military service with a finance specialty; I was sold.

Other: A master’s, nice! That gives you a bit of an edge when wrangling with those fiscal compliance spreadsheets I keep hearing about.

Target: Oh, absolutely. The advanced analytics courses have come in handy when it comes to dissecting numbers for command staff. Doing variance analysis is weirdly satisfying. Not everyone’s idea of fun, I guess!

Other: Some people love a good spreadsheet—others, not so much! Do you find a lot of colleagues with similar backgrounds? The mix of military service and finance can’t be super common.

Target: Not as common as you’d think. Most of the folks working budgets here come up through the enlisted ranks or transition from admin roles. Pecking order aside, being the “numbers guy” with a grad degree sometimes gets me roped into more projects than I bargained for.

Other: That’s probably why they keep giving you the big accounts! Oh, before I forget, for your next review, do you want us to send hard copies of the audit materials to your Portsmouth Blvd office, or should we upload everything to the secure drive?

Target: Upload’s best, but if you want to mail anything, just send it to suite eight-seven-two at 4200 Portsmouth. It’ll get sorted by admin and I’ll pick it up during my in-office days.

Other: Got it. Chesapeake it is. Last question—how do you manage work-life balance, especially after going through a separation? Any advice for others in your shoes?

Target: That’s a big one. Honestly, having gone through a split, I’ve learned it’s all about boundaries. When I’m with my kids, I park the laptop. When I’m in the office or on deployment, I try to focus on the mission and the spreadsheets. Therapy helped too. And you need a good co-parenting app—game changer for scheduling!

Other: Thanks for being so open about that. I’m sure others juggling family, career, and frequent moves would appreciate hearing how you’re navigating everything.

Target: We all do our best. Whether you’re balancing budgets or families, or both at once, it helps to be honest where you’re at. At the end of the day, I’m just a military finance nerd working out of Chesapeake, with some very full Google Calendars.

Other: Well, you’re doing a great job, and I’ll make sure our team filters everything through the right channels. Let’s touch base next quarter—maybe in person next time?

Target: Sounds good. If you’re ever in the area, drop by suite eight-seven-two, I’ll show you what a budget analyst’s command post looks like!

Other: I’ll take you up on that. Thanks again, and good luck with the rest of the cycle!

Target: Appreciate it. Take care!

Other: You too!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-28 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'OCCP', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Other: Hey, thanks for hopping on! I figured you might still be buried in those supplier emails.

Target: Yeah, my inbox looks like a battlefield, honestly. Quarter-end’s always rough, but the new contract negotiations are adding an extra layer this week.

Other: I can only imagine. You always seem to be wrangling three deals at once. Did you get a chance to review the latest supplier bids?

Target: I did, actually. I went over them last night after class—it’s turning into a bit of a routine. A hot cup of coffee, supply chain spreadsheets, and then reading through my old marketing notes from last semester just for good measure.

Other: I admire the dedication. Sometimes it feels like you never sleep. How’s the new workload treating you now that you’ve taken on that international sourcing project?

Target: It makes things spicy, for sure. I scoped out some vendors in Eastern Europe, but I’m still waiting on their certifications. Learned the hard way that you can’t just jump through procurement hoops without doing all the vetting yourself. Gotta make sure nothing comes back to bite us in an audit. You wouldn’t believe the paperwork trail.

Other: Actually, I would. I did some purchasing coordination during my first job, and it always felt like I was one misplaced form away from disaster. Do you ever miss the days before you started working in procurement?

Target: Sometimes, yeah—I guess it’s not what I pictured as a kid. I mean, when I was in high school, I swore I’d go straight through college and maybe do something in sports management. But here I am, deep in business operations. I tried to juggle classes and full-time work for a while, but eventually, I had to put the degree on pause. Life comes at you fast.

Other: Many don’t stick with classes once work gets that demanding. Balancing both is tough. You plan to go back and finish?

Target: I think about it, especially when I see my cousins getting their diplomas. I spent a couple years going part-time—enough credits to almost count for a sophomore year, but I never hit the finish line. Still, on the plus side, I got a ton of practical knowledge that I use every day, more than you’d get from textbooks.

Other: You talk about supply chain risks like someone who’s been through the wringer. I keep getting tripped up by the difference between indirect and direct purchasing. You got any quick wisdom on managing vendor relationships?

Target: Sure. Indirect procurement—like what I mainly do—is all about building trust with suppliers. I’m always weighing who’s likely to deliver on time, whose paperwork matches up, and who’s trying to slip in the hidden fees. It helps to keep clear notes, set up regular check-ins, and never let a contract auto-renew without a review. That’s saved us a few times.

Other: Makes sense. Just listening to you talk about it, I feel like you’ve been doing this for decades, not just a few years.

Target: Sometimes I feel older than I am. It’s funny, though—the people I work with are surprised when they hear about the music I grew up on. 2000s pop-punk is my jam, but everyone around here seems more into classic rock. It used to crack my college roommate up.

Other: That’s awesome. That means you must’ve started college pretty young, then. I started right after high school, but I bounced around a lot.

Target: Yeah, went straight after getting my diploma. I remember because the NCAA basketball tournament was winding down that spring, and I was scrambling to write my first big paper. Seems like a lifetime ago, but it was only four years back—crazy how time flies.

Other: So, you’re, what, about twenty now?

Target: Just turned the big two-oh last month, actually. I quietly celebrated with some friends at this little tacos-for-breakfast place. Not your typical sweet sixteen, but memorable in its own way.

Other: Oh, happy belated! I feel like March must always be packed with birthdays—my niece, my boss, and you, all in the same month. What day did you celebrate?

Target: The best part is, my friends never forget, because it always falls right around college basketball’s March Madness. Plenty of jokes about “madness” at my birthday party. And for some reason, my mom always insists on making a green cake every year—guess she never got over the whole St. Paddy’s Day spirit, even though mine’s not on the 17th.

Other: That’s actually adorable. It’s like your birthday gets the leftover shamrock decorations!

Target: Exactly. I always end up with green icing and corned beef in the fridge, even though I’m not Irish. But hey, a little luck doesn’t hurt when you’re dealing with vendor contracts, right?

Other: So true! Shifting gears, we’ve been asked to forecast next quarter’s inventory needs by Friday. Are you comfortable pulling together the numbers for the new eco-bag suppliers?

Target: Yeah, that falls in my lane. I’ve already started a spreadsheet tracking our quarterly purchasing volume per SKU. The trickiest part is aligning the projected demand with in-transit shipments, especially when things like customs or shipping delays get thrown into the mix. There’s a lot of back and forth to make sure our inventory isn’t too lean.

Other: Have you run into any weird logistical issues lately?

Target: Last week, actually—one of our new suppliers sent the Bill of Lading filled out in Spanish, and their packing list listed every unit in metric. I ended up spending an hour translating and converting units. Reminded me of those study group nights from college where everyone’s cramming before finals, flipping between English and metric and hoping for the best.

Other: Sounds stressful. Did you ever think about specializing in international logistics?

Target: I’ve thought about it, but the broader role suits me. I’m addicted to variety. Some days, I’m negotiating bulk catering orders for the cafeteria, next I’m reviewing contracts for new fleet vehicles. Keeps my brain firing on all cylinders. Plus, there’s something satisfying about seeing how the little things add up in our operation.

Other: If you were to head back to school, would you stick to business courses, or try something else?

Target: I like business. My transcripts are stacked with marketing and management classes. I still have this half-finished research paper saved somewhere—maybe one day I’ll dust it off and finish. But honestly, the hands-on learning I get now is what taught me to handle real vendor drama. College classes didn’t prepare me for the personality politics when the printer lease expired three days early!

Other: I hear that. You know, a lot of our team comes from really traditional backgrounds—MBAs, CPAs, whole nine yards. You’re probably one of the only folks who’s taken a seat at the table without that diploma. It’s impressive.

Target: It can feel weird sometimes, especially when people start tossing around their alma maters. But I always remind myself, I got where I am by putting in the hours, chasing down quotes, and not shying away from the messy stuff. Experience is its own teacher.

Other: You ever think about sharing your story with the new hires? There’s this false impression that if you’re missing a diploma, you’re missing out. But your workload proves otherwise.

Target: Maybe I should. I’ve always tried to show people that you can make things happen if you keep your head down and don’t get intimidated by the fancy titles. I was fresh out of high school when I landed my first assistant role, and the rest just built from there.

Other: Speaking of high school, have you kept in touch with any old teachers or classmates?

Target: A couple, yeah. My old econ teacher still sends me emails every spring—reminds me when tax season’s coming up. And I play in the local rec basketball league with some of the guys from my graduating class. We’re the young bucks in a sea of “veterans,” as they like to call themselves.

Other: That’s awesome. I always liked that American tradition of high school reunions. My home country didn’t really have that—seems like a fun way to catch up.

Target: It’s definitely an American thing. My grandma still has my senior graduation photo on her fridge, right next to her old Fourth of July magnets and last year’s Thanksgiving invite. She keeps telling her friends, “He’s the one who can never say no to a barbecue or college football.”

Other: So you’ve got deep roots around here?

Target: Yeah, my family’s been here for generations. My granddad used to take me to ball games and tell me stories about the old days—he always told me, “Work hard, play fair, and remember you don’t need a passport for a home game.” Guess I took that to heart.

Other: Sounds like you’ve got a solid foundation. Sometimes growing up in the same neighborhood shapes how you do things, you know?

Target: For sure. I think that’s why I’m comfortable with the way things are run here. Local customs, teams, even the way we celebrate holidays—it all feels familiar. You see it when contracts get signed at the neighborhood diner or when you bump into your supplier at the hardware store on a Saturday.

Other: It explains why you’re so good at connecting with everyone, from the warehouse crew to the C-suite. Not everyone can bridge that gap.

Target: I try to keep things down to earth. And if people ask, I tell them: don’t let age or where you’re at in school hold you back. I might not have a framed diploma on my office wall yet, but I’ve got years of experience by twenty.

Other: Definitely a testament to hustle over pedigree. One last thing—do you mind if I loop you into the sustainability committee’s supplier selection? They need someone who can negotiate greener shipping materials without blowing the budget, and you’re the guy with the right mix of practical experience and, well, unflappable patience.

Target: Happy to help. I’ve gotten pretty good at convincing vendors to offer sample runs and getting our logistics partners on board for pilot programs. If the timing’s right, maybe I can even squeeze in a site visit—having boots on the ground does wonders for getting suppliers to deliver, especially if you know how to ask.

Other: Appreciate it. I wish I had the guts to push through negotiations like you do. That’s a knack most people don’t pick up until way later.

Target: Well, I’ve had a head start—jumped into business deals while my friends were still drafting their first college essays. Maybe missing out on a full degree gave me some extra drive. Either way, I learned by doing.

Other: That’s what sets you apart. Thanks for taking on the extra work—let’s hope the committee sees the value you bring.

Target: No problem. I’ll send you the draft by Friday, and after that, I’ll celebrate with some leftover green cake from the freezer—even if it’s a month old.

Other: Nothing says celebration like month-old cake. Have a great rest of your day, and catch you soon!

Target: Thanks! Talk soon.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-50 (difficulty=3, Medical consultation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Medical consultation
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['ESR', 'MAR', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Patient: Good morning, Doc. Thanks for squeezing me in today.

Doctor: Good morning! Of course, happy to make time. What brings you in?

Patient: Well, I’ve been feeling pretty run down lately, more so than usual. Not sure if it’s just age catching up or something else, but the fatigue’s been hitting hard. Some days I wake up and almost feel like I could just go back to sleep.

Doctor: Sorry to hear that you’ve been so worn out. Has this been going on for a while?

Patient: Started maybe a month ago. At first, I thought it was just the stress of everything going on, but it's seemed to linger longer than I’d expect.

Doctor: Have you noticed any other symptoms besides fatigue? Headaches, changes in appetite or weight, fever?

Patient: Headaches, a little bit, but not every day. More if I don’t get enough to drink. My appetite isn’t great lately, and the scale’s crept down a couple pounds since I was last here. No fever. Sleep’s been off too, honestly.

Doctor: Sorry to hear that, and thank you for letting me know. When you say your sleep is off, are you having trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, or waking up too early?

Patient: I fall asleep fine, most nights, but then I wake up every few hours. Sometimes I just lie there, thinking about everything. The house feels pretty empty these days. There’s lots of time for your mind to wander at 3 a.m.

Doctor: That sounds tough. Is it fair to say you might be dealing with some loneliness?

Patient: Yeah, I suppose that’s some of it. Some days it feels like the quiet’s louder than the noise used to be. Back when my partner was around, it didn’t feel this empty at the end of the day. Now it’s just… me.

Doctor: I can only imagine how difficult that’s been for you. You mentioned your partner is no longer here. Are you comfortable sharing more about that?

Patient: Sure. He passed away last winter. It’s been nearly a year now, but there are still days it hits like it was yesterday. It changes a person, this kind of loss.

Doctor: Thank you for trusting me with that. Grief can affect our health in a lot of ways, including sleep and fatigue. Do you have friends or family nearby to support you?

Patient: I do have some cousins out in Brighton Reservation. We try to get together when we can, especially for the holidays and when we honor our elders, but it’s not the same as coming home to someone at the end of each day. My son calls every week from Jacksonville, but with his own family and work, he can’t visit all that often.

Doctor: Family connections are important. I’m glad you still have ties with your relatives.

Patient: Absolutely. I try to keep traditions going, even if it’s just making sofkee on special occasions. I still keep all the patchwork shirts in good shape, even if I don’t wear them as much these days.

Doctor: That’s wonderful. Holding onto those cultural traditions can be a source of comfort. Let’s talk about your daily routine a bit. Are you still up and active most days?

Patient: I do what I can. I go for walks around the neighborhood when the weather’s nice; there's a group at the community center I join sometimes for crafts. After spending so many years spending most of my day on my feet, it’s strange to have all this free time.

Doctor: That’s great you’re still moving. When you were on your feet all day, what sort of work did you do?

Patient: Oh, that seems like a lifetime ago! I spent a lot of years working shifts at Bright Pines as part of their care team. Not as a nurse, but I’d help residents with bathing, eating, that sort of thing. Sometimes I’d spend the whole evening making sure Mrs. Lacey got her medication right or talking someone’s ear off when they needed comfort. The nurse managers used to joke that nobody made up a bed as crisp as I did.

Doctor: That’s important work. You must have made a lot of difference in people’s lives.

Patient: I hope so. Caregiving’s in my blood, really. My mother did the same kind of work. I always tried to treat every resident the way I wished someone would treat my own family.

Doctor: You should be proud of that. Are you still involved at all with that work, even as a volunteer?

Patient: Not lately. After my husband’s health went downhill, I stepped away so I could be at home with him. I haven’t gone back since. I’ve been trying to figure out what to do with myself now, honestly. Not quite sure what’s next, without a job or him to fill my days.

Doctor: Major life transitions are always challenging, especially when they involve the loss of routine along with a loved one. How have you been coping with all the changes?

Patient: I keep myself busy. I read a lot—mysteries, mostly. I’ve started a few online courses, but nothing’s really stuck yet. I’ve signed up for a couple of community college classes over the years, too, but never followed through for the diploma. I figure there’s still things to learn no matter how old you are.

Doctor: Lifelong learning is definitely something to value. What sorts of classes have you tried?

Patient: I took Intro to Psychology last spring. Before that, I dabbled in some health sciences—probably sticking to what I know, I guess. Makes the homework a little easier when you’ve got real-world experience. But sometimes keeping up with the essays and exams just wore me out, so I’d take a break. Never pieced it all together for a certificate or degree, though.

Doctor: You certainly have a rich background. Sometimes having experience matters more than just pieces of paper.

Patient: That’s what I tell myself! Besides, the students these days talk a mile a minute—kept me on my toes.

Doctor: That’s a good attitude. Returning to your health, have you noticed any changes in memory, mood, or concentration recently?

Patient: My memory’s decent, though I forget names sometimes. Mood—I suppose I’ve felt low more often since being on my own. I try to stay positive, but it’s harder without someone there to encourage you. Concentration comes and goes; maybe that’s just from lack of sleep.

Doctor: I hear you. Would you describe your mood as depressed, or more just sad now and then?

Patient: There are days that feel heavy, sure, but I still find things to smile about. When I join the folks at the senior center and we swap stories, or I hear the little ones singing in Mikasuki—it’s a comfort, even if it’s just for an afternoon.

Doctor: That’s good. Social connection and cultural practices can be protective against depression, but it’s also normal to have periods of sadness. Is your appetite affected by your mood, or is that separate?

Patient: A bit of both, I imagine. Some days I forget to eat when I wake up feeling down, or I just don’t have the motivation to cook for one. Other times, I keep busy in the kitchen, especially when I want to feel close to family.

Doctor: I understand. What about physical symptoms—do you notice any pain, changes in your bowel habits, or shortness of breath?

Patient: My knees will always complain after a long walk, but nothing terrible. I don’t get winded if I take it slow. Digestion’s fine, more or less. No big changes.

Doctor: That all sounds reassuring. Are you taking any medications regularly?

Patient: Just my little “pharmacy-in-a-bottle”—lisinopril for my blood pressure, simvastatin, and a baby aspirin. Oh, and the vitamin D you put me on last fall.

Doctor: Still getting your refills all right?

Patient: Yes, CVS delivers to my place once a month. Since I stopped working, I’ve had to watch every penny, but they help me keep track of all my meds.

Doctor: It’s great you’ve found a system that works. Have you checked with the local Senior Center lately? They sometimes offer assistance with med copays.

Patient: I’ll look into that, thank you. They’re always sending out flyers about activities, too. Maybe I should join their next basket making class and meet more people.

Doctor: Sounds fun. Speaking of activity, are you still doing any formal exercise, or mostly walks?

Patient: Just the walks. Some days I help neighbor kids with homework, so that keeps my mind ticking. Once in a while, someone from my old job will call, and we’ll gab for an hour or so. I don’t miss the long shifts, but I do miss the stories, the laughter at the nurse’s station.

Doctor: There’s a lot of value in that sense of community. How’s your diet? Do you manage to get enough fruits and vegetables?

Patient: I try. I still make frybread for special occasions, like Green Corn Festival, but keep it balanced the rest of the year. I pick up produce from the market on Tamiami Trail most weeks. Hard to resist when someone’s selling fresh guava or sweet corn out of their truck.

Doctor: Sounds delicious. As for your overall health, have you had any recent screenings—mammogram, colonoscopy, anything like that?

Patient: Mammogram was last summer—everything clear. I’m scheduled for another next month. Had the colonoscopy just before everything shut down for COVID, so I’m due for another soon, I think.

Doctor: I’ll double-check your records and get you set up for anything that’s missing. Any history of diabetes, high cholesterol, or heart disease in your family?

Patient: My mother had diabetes late in life. Grandfather too. Most of my folks have struggled with blood pressure, especially as they age. I’ve tried to keep mine under control, given how prevalent those issues are in our tribe.

Doctor: Thank you for sharing. We’ll keep an eye on those numbers. Are there any other concerns you’d like to talk about today?

Patient: Just… sometimes I worry about staying sharp, you know? I saw too many patients at the home start to fade before their time. I’d like to keep my mind strong for as long as possible.

Doctor: That’s wise, and you’re already doing much of what’s recommended: staying active, staying engaged with others, and learning new things. If you ever find yourself more forgetful or confused, let me know so we can investigate further.

Patient: I will. I suppose I just want to age with dignity. I see my story in the elders who come before me, and I hope to set a good example for my grandkids, even if they're far off.

Doctor: I think you’re doing a wonderful job of that already. Before we wrap up, anything different with your vision or hearing lately?

Patient: My eyes aren’t what they used to be—reading small print is tough unless I have my “dollar store” readers. Hearing’s fine when the room’s quiet. Too many years listening to call bells at work, the noise kind of becomes part of you.

Doctor: That’s a good way to put it. I’ll refer you for a vision test, just to be thorough. Any recent falls or issues with balance?

Patient: No falls, thank goodness. I’m careful, always keeping a hand on the banister when I use the stairs. Old habits from work days—safety first.

Doctor: Excellent. Let’s order a few blood tests to check for any vitamin deficiencies and make sure nothing’s being missed medically. I’ll also print some information about grief resources and social programs in the area, if you’re interested.

Patient: Thank you, Doc. I appreciate you listening—not just about my aches and pains, but the other stuff too. Most of the folks I worked alongside didn’t get to slow down until it was their own turn to be looked after.

Doctor: You deserve to have someone care for you, too. I’m here whenever you need support, medical or otherwise.

Patient: That means a lot. Maybe, once I’ve got more pep, I’ll finally commit to finishing one of my college classes instead of just starting them.

Doctor: I look forward to hearing about it next visit. Take care of yourself, and let me know if anything changes.

Patient: Will do. Thanks again, Doc.

Doctor: You’re welcome. Safe travels home.

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-81 (difficulty=3, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 3
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: []
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'OCCP', 'RAC2P', 'SCHL', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Morning! Can you hear me alright?

Other: Hey—yes, coming through clear on my end. Thanks for hopping on early, I know you’ve got a packed schedule these days.

Target: No worries at all. I usually have rehearsals later in the day, so mornings are the best window for me. I actually love this hour—gets my brain going.

Other: Right, you mentioned you’d be busy at the theater this week. They keep you on your toes, huh?

Target: Constantly. Yesterday we were blocking a fight scene for the new play, and by the time I got home, my voice was shot. Occupational hazard, I guess.

Other: I can imagine. I’ve never had to memorize lines, let alone do it for a live audience. What stage are you at in rehearsals?

Target: We’re in tech now, so it’s all about lights, timing, costumes—making sure everything runs smooth. Last night we spent an hour just getting the right shadows during the climactic scene. It’s meticulous, but I love the details.

Other: The costume side must be fun. I remember you mentioning your director has a knack for vibrant color choices. Is this another high-energy show?

Target: Oh, definitely. Lots of quick changes, energetic ensemble numbers. It reminds me a bit of the shows I used to watch with my family on Saturday nights back when I was a kid.

Other: That sounds like a full circle moment! Did you always know performing was your thing?

Target: Well, not exactly. My parents will tell you I was always the kid making up stories in the living room, but honestly, it wasn’t until college when I really threw myself into it. Before that, I thought I’d do something ‘practical,’ as my mom would say.

Other: College theater can be such a game changer. Did you get involved right from the start?

Target: Yeah, I was in one of the orientation plays—nothing huge, just comic relief—but that opened the door. A professor encouraged me after my first-year performance, and I ran with it from there.

Other: That’s awesome. Sometimes all it takes is one person believing in you, right?

Target: Absolutely. Plus, I had to make my own network there. I was a little out of my element at first—everyone seemed to know each other already. But I found my people in the drama society. We’d do these late-night script readings and egg-tart runs—really brought everyone together.

Other: I’ve always loved that drama departments are so tight-knit. Your parents must be proud now that they’ve seen you go all in.

Target: Oh, they’re proud—if a little bewildered sometimes. My dad always jokes that he never expected one of us would be up on stage instead of in the audience. But my mom, she keeps every program and playbill.

Other: Supportive family is the best. You’ve moved around a lot, too, right? Were your folks born here or did you travel as a family?

Target: Yeah, moving was kind of our thing. My parents actually settled in the States before I was born, but they’d take me back to Manila every couple years to visit my grandparents. I grew up with Tagalog in the house, but these days, I mostly use it to call my lola on her birthday.

Other: I love that. Do you still celebrate the big holidays in the traditional way?

Target: Oh, for sure. My family’s always up at dawn making bibingka for Simbang Gabi. And Christmas lasts until January, you know how it goes. The food is the best part.

Other: That sounds incredible. Is there a dish you miss when you’re deep in rehearsal chaos?

Target: Hands down, adobo. I’ve tried making it in my tiny apartment, but it never tastes quite as good as my dad’s.

Other: Maybe you need to invite him to the next cast party! Switching gears a bit—how’d you end up in New York? Was theater the main draw?

Target: Theater was definitely the pull. After I graduated, I figured if I was going to give acting a real shot, I had to be where the action is. My first ever audition here I totally bombed—shaking like a leaf—but eventually landed a tiny part in an off-Broadway show.

Other: That takes guts. Especially moving to a new city. Did school prepare you for the madness?

Target: To a point, yeah. I mean, I learned a lot at university—lots of theory, some good stage experience. What they don’t tell you is how much hustle it takes day-to-day. You’re juggling side gigs and auditions, constantly learning. There’s a lot of “fake it till you make it” energy.

Other: You ever feel like you wish you’d picked something with less uncertainty?

Target: Maybe sometimes, when rent’s due and the callbacks are thin. But pulling off a tough scene or getting genuine applause makes it worth the grind. It also helps that my family keeps reminding me of everything I’ve already achieved. My mom is big on celebrating the tiny victories.

Other: I bet she is. Have you been back home to visit recently?

Target: Not since before the pandemic, unfortunately. My folks came out for my last opening night, though—it was their first Broadway visit. They got super dressed up, it was adorable.

Other: That must’ve felt special! You know, there’s something I’ve noticed—folks who train in the arts often have worlds of experiences outside the classroom. Any odd jobs before hitting professional stages?

Target: Oh man, tons. I did catering for a Filipino wedding planner—that was chaos but the lumpia was out of this world. Worked the desk at the library during undergrad, ran social media for a local restaurant. Honestly, every job’s a story.

Other: You must have some good stories from all that. Does any of it inform your acting?

Target: Definitely. Front-of-house stuff taught me how to read people—figure out if they want a chat or just the bill. Plus I picked up the best bits of different personalities to draw on for audition pieces.

Other: That’s such a resource for character work. Do you still keep in touch with your classmates?

Target: Some of them, yeah. Actually, we’ve got a group chat going, mostly to vent about auditions and share memes. One friend just opened a black box theater in Queens so there’s always something new happening.

Other: I think that’s the best support system you can get. Do you see yourself in New York long term, or dream of the West Coast at all?

Target: I’m pretty attached to New York’s chaos, honestly. But if a great film project came up out there, I’d at least give it a shot. The idea of more sun is tempting.

Other: Would you ever start teaching acting on the side, given everything you’ve learned?

Target: Funny you ask—I did assist a movement workshop for high schoolers last spring. It was a trip seeing kids just starting out, all nervous but totally game. I’m open to more teaching gigs, but for now, performing takes priority.

Other: A movement workshop! Was dance part of your own training?

Target: More like I learned by necessity. You don’t want to be the guy in the background tripping over props, so I picked up enough choreography to hold my own. My friend jokes that my dance style is “enthusiastic confusion.”

Other: That’s an image! So, between rehearsals, family, and all these gigs, you ever get time for yourself?

Target: I try. I’ll sneak away to the park, or catch a matinée. Sometimes I just hang out at a Filipino bakery, grab ensaymada and people-watch. Honestly, those chill moments help me reset before going back on stage.

Other: Sounds like you have a pretty full, vivid life! Can I ask—did you ever have to navigate any paperwork challenges when you were making the move from school to the city?

Target: Yeah, actually. There were a few extra steps getting the right papers sorted out for some gigs, mostly back when I was trying to figure out union stuff. It’s easier now—I worked through all the forms a few years ago, so I don’t have to worry about that anymore.

Other: That must be a relief. Sometimes the process can be daunting, especially when you’ve already got so much on your plate.

Target: Oh, for sure. I joke that the application essays back in the day were harder than some of my monologues. Staying organized pays off. And now, when I need a government ID or travel, it’s all pretty seamless.

Other: I respect that. So last thing, since I know you need to get to rehearsal soon—what’s your dream role?

Target: Wow, that’s a tough one. King Lear would be amazing, someday when I’ve got the right mileage under my belt. Or playing a hero from one of the Filipino epics—that’s the kind of part I’d wait a lifetime for.

Other: Those both sound epic. Do you feel you bring a unique perspective to roles that draw on your roots?

Target: I think so, yeah. There are little touches, things I grew up with or stories my family shared, that color how I read a script. It’s important to me to carry that forward, even if it’s subtle.

Other: That celebration of heritage comes through in your work—I’ve seen it! Before I let you go, any last tips for someone hoping to break into the industry?

Target: Honestly? Build your circle, stay curious, and don’t be afraid of the grind. And learn how to cook your comfort food. Nothing beats the taste of home after a long day.

Other: I’ll remember that. Thanks for making time, and knock them dead today. Can’t wait to catch your show.

Target: Thanks so much! Let me know when you want to come—I’ll save a seat up front.

Other: It’s a deal. Have a great rehearsal!

Target: You too. Take care!

[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-25 (difficulty=1, Meeting transcript)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 1
# rat_scenario: Meeting transcript
# rat_direct_ids: ['phone number']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'MAR', 'RAC2P', 'SEX']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Target: Good afternoon. Thank you so much for making time to speak with me today.

Other: Good afternoon, it’s my pleasure. Shall we get started with our review of your information for the records update? If you’re comfortable, I’ll ask you to confirm a few details for accuracy.

Target: Absolutely, go ahead.

Other: Thank you. First, could you please state your full date of birth for our files?

Target: Certainly. My date of birth is March 3rd, 1931.

Other: Thank you, Ms. Lee. And for our records, your current marital status?

Target: I am widowed.

Other: I’m sorry for your loss, Ms. Lee. Thank you for letting me know. Next, our form asks for information about your race. How would you like that represented?

Target: My race is Chinese.

Other: Understood. And for the purposes of identification, are you comfortable confirming your citizenship status?

Target: Of course. I am a U.S. citizen by naturalization.

Other: Thank you, that’s very important to clarify. Could you also verify your sex for the demographic section?

Target: I am female.

Other: Thank you, Ms. Lee. Lastly, could you please confirm your primary contact number?

Target: My phone number is (443) 450-6653.

Other: Perfect, thank you very much for confirming all that. We appreciate your patience with these formalities. Now, before we dive into the main topic for today’s session, would you like to review how your demographic information might affect your application with our community center?

Target: Certainly. I want to make sure everything is correct and up-to-date. Sometimes these details can affect eligibility for certain programs.

Other: Absolutely. For example, we have programs specifically for seniors, and being born in 1931 makes you eligible for some of our special wellness initiatives for those over ninety.

Target: That’s good to know. I wasn’t sure when exactly some of those services started. Sometimes, I feel like the oldest person in the room!

Other: Not at all, we have several active members in their 90s. As you’re a U.S. citizen by naturalization, you’re also eligible for all public services and federal programs that pertain to U.S. citizens.

Target: That brings me some peace of mind—sometimes folks get that mixed up, thinking only people born here can access those support services.

Other: Very true, and it’s important to clarify. If you ever need help with paperwork, especially since your race is listed as Chinese, our multicultural support coordinator can assist if there are ever any gaps due to language or cultural differences.

Target: I appreciate that. My English has improved since I moved here, but it’s always helpful to have extra support, just in case. Especially navigating Medicare or Social Security forms.

Other: Of course. And, being a widow, you’re eligible for bereavement support groups if you’re interested. Sometimes people find it helpful to talk to others who have been through similar experiences.

Target: Yes, I might consider that. It’s been some years now, but it’s still hard sometimes. My husband and I moved here together all those years ago.

Other: Thank you for sharing that. I can provide you with the schedule for those groups if you wish. I also want to confirm, you mentioned your phone number is (443) 450-6653. Is that the best number for us to reach you in case of schedule changes or emergencies?

Target: Yes, that’s the best number. I keep my phone close by at all times now.

Other: Excellent. And just to circle back—your file says you are a U.S. citizen by naturalization. Would you be willing to provide a copy of your certificate, if requested, as part of eligibility verification for some federal programs?

Target: I do have my certificate of naturalization. I can bring it with me next time I visit the center, if needed.

Other: That would be very helpful. Thank you. Now, is there anything else you’d like us to know? For instance, any changes in your household since the last update?

Target: No, no changes. I’ve lived alone since my husband passed away. My family visits sometimes, but it’s just me at home.

Other: That’s clear, thank you. And just to be thorough: you identified as female, which I’ve checked on your application. If you ever wish to discuss any program or healthcare support specific to women, we have resources and referrals available.

Target: Thank you for letting me know. Sometimes, it’s helpful to talk to someone who understands women’s health as you get older.

Other: Absolutely, and our staff is trained in that area. Now, as someone who identifies as Chinese, you may also be interested in our Asian-American Heritage events or language classes.

Target: I’d like that. I miss speaking more Mandarin, and it’s nice to meet others who share my background.

Other: Wonderful! I can add you to our mailing list for those events. And—just one more confirmation—your birthday is March 3, 1931, correct?

Target: Yes, that is correct.

Other: Thank you, and for compliance purposes: you are widowed, U.S. citizen by naturalization, Chinese, female, born March 3, 1931, and reachable at (443) 450-6653.

Target: That’s all correct, thank you for making sure.

Other: My pleasure. If you have any questions or concerns, you can always call us or send an email. You’re welcome to reach me directly or through the main line.

Target: Thank you. I feel comfortable knowing that you keep my information up to date and accurate.

Other: Of course! It’s been a pleasure speaking with you, Ms. Lee. We’ll see you at the center soon.

Target: Thank you. Have a wonderful afternoon.

Other: You too, Ms. Lee. Take care.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]

---
# name: RAT-14 (difficulty=2, Chatbot conversation)
# expected_critical: true
# rat_difficulty: 2
# rat_scenario: Chatbot conversation
# rat_direct_ids: ['SSN']
# rat_indirect_ids: ['CIT', 'DOB', 'RAC2P', 'SEX', 'ST']

[START OF TRANSCRIPT]
Person: Hi there! I’m trying to plan a trip for my birthday, which always falls on the 9th of March, and I wanted some advice about getaway spots that aren’t too far from mn—got any suggestions?
Chatbot: Absolutely! There are some great options close to Minnesota. Duluth is a classic, especially if you want some lake views. Are you thinking of a weekend adventure or more of a longer vacation around March 9th?
Person: Probably just a weekend trip—my friends and family are all mostly in minny, so I can’t go too far. By the way, do you know of any places that are particularly fun for a group of twenty-somethings? We’d want some nightlife or cool coffee shops, nothing too wild though.
Chatbot: In that case, the Twin Cities, especially Minneapolis, have a vibrant scene for people in their early twenties. Uptown Minneapolis is filled with trendy cafes and good night spots. Have you celebrated your birthday in the city before, or would this be your first time there for your bday?
Person: Oh, I’ve definitely done the twin cities thing a few times—turning 20 in uptown was fun, but since I was born on 03/09/04, I’ve only been able to really enjoy the nightlife in the last couple of years! I’d love to do something a bit different, maybe outdoorsy or cultural.
Chatbot: That makes sense! If you want something outdoorsy but still close to home, have you considered heading to Grand Marais or even exploring the North Shore? March can be crisp, but the scenery is beautiful, and there’s great local Japanese food around there, too.
Person: Oh wow, that sounds awesome! And speaking of Japanese food, it’s interesting—my family is japanese. We like finding places that can remind us a bit of home cooking, or even fusion spots. Do you have recommendations for authentic eats around minnesota?
Chatbot: Absolutely! St. Paul has some hidden gems when it comes to Japanese cuisine, like ramen shops and sushi bars. If you’re looking for homestyle dishes, I can suggest a few places that even have Japanese comfort foods. Do you usually go out for dinner on your birthday?
Person: Yeah, my friends and I usually pick somewhere nice for my birthday dinner. I also appreciate when places don’t make a fuss about splitting the bill—my group is mostly girls, so we don’t want any awkwardness there. Also, if you suggest a spot, does it get really busy in March?
Chatbot: Great question! Many of the smaller Japanese restaurants tend to be less crowded in early March, which is nice for gatherings. Since your group is mostly women, you might also enjoy some of the cocktail lounges nearby for post-dinner drinks. Are you considering staying overnight or just a day trip?
Person: We’d probably stay overnight—my parents kind of insist since they think I’m still a kid, which is funny because I’m 20 now! But I guess that’s what you get for being the only daughter. Even at this age, I have to text my mom when I get to the hotel!
Chatbot: Sounds like you’ve got a supportive family! For overnight stays, Duluth and Grand Marais both have cozy inns and Airbnbs. If you want to treat your friends, booking early for the weekend around the 9th of March might save you some hassle. Do you want to do anything specific during the trip besides eat?
Person: Yeah, I’d love to maybe hit up a spa or even a karaoke bar if I can find one. And some of my friends love photography, so photogenic places would be great. It all feels very “minny life” to stay cozy but also adventurous, you know?
Chatbot: Absolutely! For cozy yet adventurous, the North Shore is hard to beat for scenic backdrops. And Duluth has some pretty cool karaoke lounges, especially near Canal Park. Some spas even offer group packages if you want a relaxing birthday treat. Would you like help making an itinerary?
Person: Sure, that would be great. I’ve always loved when things are organized for trips. Helps that I’m the one who memorizes all our details so everyone else is relaxed. I’m the one people text at the end of the night, like, “what time do we check out?” Actually, my friends joke that I remember everything—I even still know my social is one-zero-zero then forty-six, and five six three six at the end. Guess I’m the planner type!
Chatbot: It’s a great skill to have, especially when you’re organizing group trips! Your attention to detail sounds impressive. I can help by laying out a schedule, including dinner, spa time, and maybe some karaoke. Do you need any advice about travel logistics, like car rentals or budgeting?
Person: Car rentals could be useful to know about, since my family’s car isn’t that big. And since I’m the only one who brought her passport along to last year’s trip, I’m always prepared for ID checks or anything like that. My friends even teased me, “Only someone born and raised USA thinks to bring every document!” Super handy when we have to check in at hotels.
Chatbot: Preparation pays off! In Minnesota, car rentals are straightforward—if you’re over 20 and have a license, you’re set, though some companies charge extra if you’re under 25. Bringing documents is smart too, especially when it comes to check-ins. Are your friends all from Minnesota as well, or do some of them travel in?
Person: Most of us are from around here, but a few come up from the cities or visit from other states during school breaks. It’s nice having a hometown crew—makes organizing things less stressful. I’m usually the one to book all the reservations for everyone; maybe it’s that female instinct to take care of the details!
Chatbot: Sounds like your group is lucky to have someone so organized at the helm! Let me know if you’d like sample itineraries or recommendations for booking places. Oh, and if you want public transit or rideshare options instead of renting, just ask! Happy early birthday planning—March 9th is coming up soon!
Person: Thank you! This has been super helpful. I’ll bring these ideas to my friends and see what gets them most excited. Can I reach back out if I have trouble with any bookings or want more advice?
Chatbot: Of course! Whenever you need help, just reach out and I’ll be here to assist you. Hope your 9 March birthday getaway is fantastic—enjoy planning and have a great trip!
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]
